"I--I didn't mean to be out so late or to go so far," stammered Lulu.
"And I didn't see the storm coming up in time, and it caught and
hindered me. Please, Mamma Vi, and Grandma Elsie, don't be angry about
it. I won't do so again."

"We won't stop to talk about it now," Elsie said, answering for Violet
and herself; "your clothes must be changed instantly, for you are as wet
as if you had been in the sea; and that with fresh water, so that there
is great danger of your taking cold."

"I should think the best plan would be for her to be rubbed with a
coarse towel till reaction sets in fully and then put directly to bed,"
said Mrs. Dinsmore. "If that is done we may hope to find her as well in
the morning as if she had not had this exposure to the storm."

Lulu made no objection nor resistance, being only too glad to escape so
easily. Still she was not quite sure that some punishment might not be
in store for her on the morrow. And she had an uncomfortable impression
that were it not for her father's absence it might not be a very light
one.

When she was snugly in bed, Grandma Elsie came to her, bringing with her
own hands a great tumbler of hot lemonade.

"Drink this, Lulu," she said, in her own sweet voice and with a loving
look that made the little girl heartily ashamed of having given so much
trouble and anxiety; "it will be very good for you, I think, as well as
palatable."

"Thank you, ma'am," Lulu said, tasting it; "it is delicious, so strong
of both lemon and sugar."

"I am glad you like it; drink it all if you can," Elsie said.

When Lulu had drained the tumbler it was carried away by Agnes, and
Grandma Elsie, sitting down beside the bed, asked, "Are you sleepy, my
child? If you are we will defer our talk till to-morrow morning; if not,
we will have it now."

"I'm not sleepy," Lulu answered, blushing and averting her face, adding
to herself, "I suppose it's got to come, and I'd rather have it over."

"You know, my child, that in the absence of your father and mine you are
my care and I am responsible for you, while you are accountable to me
for your good or bad behavior. Such being the case, it is now my duty to
ask you to give an account of your whereabouts and doings in the hours
that you were absent from us this evening."

Lulu replied by an exact statement of the truth, pleading in excuse for
her escapade her father's permission to stroll about the beach, even
alone, her enjoyment of the exercise of walking along the bluff, and her
absorbing interest in the changing beauty of sky and sea--all which
tended to render her oblivious of time and space, so that on being
suddenly reminded of them she found herself much farther from home than
she had supposed.

"Was it not merely within certain limits you were given permission to
ramble about the beach?" Elsie asked gently.

"Yes, ma'am; papa said I was not to go far, and I did not intend to;
indeed, indeed, Grandma Elsie, I had not the least intention of
disobeying, but forgot everything in the pleasure of the walk and the
beautiful sights."

"Do you think that is sufficient excuse, and ought to be accepted as
fully exonerating you from blame in regard to this matter?"

"I don't think people can help forgetting sometimes," Lulu replied, a
trifle sullenly.

"I remember that in dealing with me as a child my father would never
take forgetfulness of his orders as any excuse for disobedience; and
though it seemed hard then, I have since thought he was right, because
the forgetfulness is almost always the result of not having deemed the
matter of sufficient importance to duly charge the memory with it.

"In the Bible God both warns us against forgetting and bids us remember:

"'Remember all the commandments of the Lord, and do them.'

"'Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy.'

"'Beware lest thou forget the Lord.'

"'The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forget
God.'

"You see that God does not accept forgetfulness as a sufficient excuse,
or any excuse for sin."

"Then you won't, of course," muttered Lulu, carefully avoiding looking
into the kind face bending over her; "how am I to be punished? I don't
feel as if anybody has a _right_ to punish me but papa," she added, with
a flash of indignant anger.

"I heartily wish he were here to attend to it," was the response, in a
kindly pitying tone. "But since, unfortunately, he is not, and my
father, too, is absent, the unpleasant duty devolves upon me. I have not
had time to fully consider the matter, but have no thought of being very
severe with you; and perhaps if you knew all the anxiety and sore
distress suffered on your account this evening--particularly by your
mamma and little sister--you would be sufficiently punished already."

"Did Mamma Vi care?" Lulu asked, in a half-incredulous tone.

"My child, she was almost distracted," Elsie said. "She loves you for
both your own and your father's sake. Besides, as she repeated again and
again, she was sorely distressed on his account, knowing his love for
you to be so great that to lose you would well-nigh break his heart."

A flash of joy illumined Lulu's face at this new testimony to her
father's love for her, but passed away as suddenly as it came.

"I do feel punished in hearing that you were all so troubled about me,
Grandma Elsie," she said, "and I mean to be very, very careful not to
cause such anxiety again. Please tell Mamma Vi I am sorry to have given
her pain; but she shouldn't care anything about such a naughty girl."

"That, my child, she cannot help," Elsie said; "she loves your father
far too well not to love you for his sake."

After a little more kindly admonitory talk she went away, leaving a
tender, motherly kiss upon the little girl's lips.

At the door Grace met her with a request for a good-night kiss, which
was promptly granted.

"Good-night, dear little one; pleasant dreams and a happy awaking, if it
be God's will," Elsie said, bending down to touch her lips to the
rosebud mouth and let the small arms twine themselves around her neck.

"Good-night, dear Grandma Elsie," responded the child. "Oh, aren't you
ever so glad God brought our Lulu safely home to us?"

"I am indeed, dear; let us not forget to thank Him for it in our prayers
to-night."

Lulu heard, and as Grace's arms went round her neck the next moment, and
the sweet lips, tremulous with emotion, touched her cheek,

"Were you so distressed about me, Gracie?" she asked with feeling. "Did
Mamma Vi care so very much that I might be drowned?"

"Yes, indeed, Lu, dear Lu; oh, what could I do without my dear sister?"

"You know you have another one now," Suggested Lulu.

"That doesn't make any difference," said Grace. "She's the darling baby
sister; you are the dear, dear big sister."

"Papa calls me his little girl," remarked Lulu, half musingly; "and
somehow I like to be little to him and big to you. Oh, Gracie, what do
you suppose he will say when he hears about to-night?--my being so bad;
and so soon after he went away, too."

"Oh, Lu, what made you?"

"Because I was careless; didn't think; and I begin to believe that it
was because I didn't choose to take the trouble," she sighed. "I'm
really afraid if papa were here I should get just the same sort of a
punishment he gave me before. Gracie, don't you ever, ever tell anybody
about that."

"No, Lu; I promised I wouldn't. But I should think you'd be punished
enough with all the wetting and the fright; for weren't you most scared
to death?"

"No; I was frightened, but not nearly so much as that. Not so much as I
should be if papa were to walk in just now; because he'd have to hear
all about it, and then he'd look so sorry and troubled, and punish me
besides."

"Then you wouldn't be glad to see papa if he came back?" Grace said, in
a reproachfully inquiring tone.

"Yes, I should," Lulu answered, promptly; "the punishment wouldn't last
long, you know; he and I would both get over it pretty soon, and then it
would be so delightful to have him with us again."

Lulu woke the next morning feeling no ill effects whatever from her
exposure to the storm.

Before she and Grace had quite finished their morning toilet Grandma
Elsie was at their door, asking if they were well. She stayed for a
little chat with them, and Lulu asked what her punishment was to be.

"Simply a prohibition of lonely rambles," Elsie answered, with a grave
but kindly look; "and I trust it will prove all-sufficient; you are to
keep near the rest of us for your own safety."




CHAPTER IX.

"He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him
 chasteneth him betimes."


When the morning boat touched at Nantucket pier there were among the
throng which poured ashore two fine-looking gentlemen--one in the prime
of life, the other growing a little elderly--who sought out at once a
conveyance to 'Sconset.

The hackman had driven them before, and recognized them with evident
pleasure mingled with surprise.

"Glad to see you back again, capt'n," he remarked, addressing the
younger of his two passengers; "but it's kind of unexpected, isn't it? I
understood you'd gone to join your ship, expecting to sail directly for
foreign parts."

"Yes, that was all correct," returned Captain Raymond, gayly, for he it
was, in company with Mr. Dinsmore; "but orders are sometimes
countermanded, as they were in this instance, to my no small content."

"They'll be dreadful glad to see you at 'Sconset," was the next remark;
"surprised, too. By the way, sir, your folks had a fright last evening."

"A fright?" inquired both gentlemen in a breath, and exchanging a look
of concern.

"Yes, sirs; about one of your little girls, capt'n--the oldest one, I
understood it was. Seems she'd wandered off alone to Tom Never's Head,
or somewhere in that neighborhood, and was caught by the darkness and
storm, and didn't find her way home till the older folks had begun to
think she'd been swept away by the tide, which was coming in, to be
sure; but they thought it might have been the backward flow of a big
wave that had rushed up a little too quick for her, taking her off her
feet and hurrying her into the surf before she could struggle up again."

All the captain's gayety was gone, and his face wore a pained, troubled
look.

"But she did reach home in safety at last?" he said, inquiringly.

"Oh, yes; all right except for a wetting, which probably did her no
harm. But now maybe I'm telling tales out of school," he added, with a
laugh. "I shouldn't like to get the little girl into trouble, so I hope
you'll not be too hard on her, capt'n. I dare say the fright has been
punishment enough to keep her from doing the like again."

"I wish it may have been," was all the captain said.

Then he fell into a revery so deep that he scarcely caught a word of a
brisk conversation, in regard to some of the points of interest on the
island, carried on between Mr. Dinsmore and the hackman.

Lulu was having an uncomfortable day. When she met the family at the
breakfast-table Grandma Rose seemed to regard her with cold displeasure;
"Mamma Vi" spoke gently and kindly; hoping she felt no injury from last
night's exposure, but looked wretchedly ill; and in answer to her
mother's inquiries admitted that she had been kept awake most of the
night by a violent headache, to which Rosie added, in an indignant tone,
and with an angry glance at Lulu:

"Brought on by anxiety in regard to a certain young miss who is always
misbehaving and causing a world of trouble to her best friends."

"Rose, Rose," Elsie said, reprovingly; "let me hear no more such
remarks, or I shall send you from the table."

Lulu had appeared in their midst, feeling humble and contrite, and had
been conscience-smitten at sight of her mamma's pale face; but the sneer
on Betty's face, the cold, averted looks of Edward and Zoe, and then
Rosie's taunt roused her quick temper to almost a white heat.

She rose, and pushing back her chair with some noise, turned to leave
the table at which she had but just seated herself.

"What is it, Lulu?" asked Grandma Elsie, in a tone of gentle kindliness.
"Sit still, my child, and ask for what you want."

"Thank you, ma'am," said Lulu. "I do not want anything but to go away.
I'd rather do without my breakfast than stay here to be insulted."

"Sit down, my child," repeated Elsie, as gently and kindly as before;
"Rosie will make no more unkind remarks; and we will all try to treat
you as we would wish to be treated were we in your place."

No one else spoke. Lulu resumed her seat and ate her breakfast, but with
little appetite or enjoyment; and on leaving the table tried to avoid
contact with any of those who had caused her offence.

"May I go down to the beach, Grandma Elsie?" she asked, in low,
constrained tones, and with her eyes upon the floor.

"If you will go directly there, to the seats under the awning which we
usually occupy, and not wander from them farther than they are from the
cliff," Elsie answered. "Promise me that you will keep within those
bounds, and I shall know I may trust you; for you are an honest child."

The cloud lifted slightly from Lulu's brow at those kindly words. She
gave the promise, and walked slowly away.

As she descended the stairway that led down the face of the cliff, she
saw that Edward and Zoe were sitting side by side on one of the benches
under the awning.

She did not fancy their company just now, and knew hers would not be
acceptable to them. She thought she would pass them and seat herself in
the sand a little farther on.

Edward was speaking as she came up behind them, and she heard him say,
"It was the most uncomfortable meal ever eaten in our family; and all
because of that ungovernable child."

Lulu flushed hotly, and stepping past turned and confronted him with
flashing eyes.

"I heard you, Uncle Edward," she said, "though I had no intention of
listening; and I say it is very unjust to blame me so when it was
Rosie's insulting tongue and other people's cold, contemptuous looks
that almost drove me wild."

"You are much too easily driven wild," he said. "It is high time you
learned to have some control over your temper. If I were your father I'd
teach it you, even if I must try the virtue of a rod again and again;
also you should learn proper submission to authority, if it had to be
taught in the same manner."

Lulu was too angry to speak for a moment; she stood silent, trembling
with passion, but at length burst out: "It's none of your business how
papa manages me, Mr. Travilla; and I'm very glad he's my father instead
of you!"

"You are a very saucy girl, Lulu Raymond," said Zoe, reddening with
anger on her husband's account, "and shamefully ungrateful for all Mr.
Travilla's kind exertions on your behalf last night."

"Hush, hush, Zoe; do not remind her of it," Edward said. "'A benefit
upbraided forfeits thanks.' I should have done quite the same for any
one supposed to be in danger and distress."

"What was it?" asked Lulu; "nobody told me he had done anything."

"He was out for hours in all that storm, hunting you," replied Zoe, with
a proudly admiring glance at her husband.

"I'm very much obliged," said Lulu, her voice softening. "And sorry you
suffered on my account," she added.

"I did not suffer anything worth mentioning," he responded; "but your
mamma was sorely distressed--thinking you might be in the sea--and, in
consequence, had a dreadful headache all night. And since such dire
consequences may follow upon your disregard for rules and lawful
authority, Lulu, I insist that you shall be more amenable to them.

"I believe you think that when your father and grandpa are both away you
can do pretty much as you please; but you shall not while I am about. I
won't have my mother's authority set at defiance by you or any one
else."

"Who wants to set it at defiance?" demanded Lulu, wrathfully. "Not I, I
am sure. But I won't be ruled by you, for papa never said I should."

"I think I shall take down this conversation and report it to him,"
Edward said, only half in earnest.

Lulu turned quickly away, greatly disturbed by the threat, but resolved
that her alarm should not be perceived by either him or Zoe. Walking a
few yards from them, she sat down upon the sand and amused herself
digging in it, but with thoughts busied with the problem, "What will
papa say and do if that conversation is reported to him?"

A very little consideration of the question convinced her that if
present her father would say she had been extremely impertinent, punish
her for it, and make her apologize.

Presently a glance toward the cottages on the bluff showed her Violet
and Grace descending the stairway. She rose and hurried to meet them.

"Mamma Vi," she said, as soon as within hearing, "I am ever so sorry to
have frightened you so last night and given you a headache. But you
oughtn't to care whether such a naughty girl as I am is drowned or not."

"How can you talk so, Lulu dear?" Violet answered, putting an arm round
the child's waist and giving her a gentle kiss. "Do you think your Mamma
Vi has no real love for you? If so, you are much mistaken. I love you,
Lulu, for yourself, and dearly for your father's sake. Oh, I wish you
loved him well enough to try harder to be good in order to add to his
happiness; it would add to it more than anything else that I know of.
Your naughtiness does not deprive you of his fatherly affection, but it
does rob him of much enjoyment which he would otherwise have."

Lulu hung her head in silence, turned, and walked away full of
self-accusing and penitent thoughts. She was not crying; tears did not
come so readily to her eyes as to those of many children of her age, but
her heart was aching with remorseful love for her absent father.

"To think that I spoiled his visit home," she sighed to herself. "Oh, I
wish he could come back to have it over again, and I would try to be
good and not spoil his enjoyment in the very least!"

"Come back now?" something seemed to reply; "suppose he should; wouldn't
he punish you for your behavior since he left, only two days ago?"

"Yes," she sighed; "I haven't the least doubt that if he were here and
knew all he would punish me severely again; and I suppose he wouldn't be
long in the house before he would hear it all; yet for all that I should
be--oh, so glad if he could come back to stay a good while."

Last night's storm had spent itself in a few hours, and the morning was
bright and clear; yet a long drive planned for that day by our friends
was unanimously postponed, as several of them had lost sleep, and wanted
to make it up with a nap.

Violet sought her couch immediately after dinner, slept off the last
remains of her headache, and about the middle of the afternoon was
preparing to go down to the beach, where all the others were, except
Grace, who was seldom far from mamma's side, when the outer door opened,
and a step and voice were heard which she had not hoped to hear again
for months or years.

The next moment she was in her husband's arms, her head pillowed on his
breast, while his lips were pressed again and again to brow and cheek
and lips, and Grace's glad shout arose, in sweet, silvery tones, "Papa
has come back! Papa has come back! My dear, dear papa!"

"Can it be possible, my dear, dear husband?" cried Violet, lifting to
his a face radiant with happiness. "It seems too good to be true."

"Not quite so good as that," he said, with a joyous laugh, "But it is
quite a satisfaction to find that you are not sorry to see me."

"Of which you were terribly afraid, of course," she returned, gayly. "Do
tell me at once how long our powers of endurance of such uncongenial
society are to be taxed?"

"Ah, that is beyond my ability."

"Then we may hope for weeks or months?" she said, rapturously.

"Certainly we are not forbidden to hope," he answered, smiling tenderly
upon her.

"Oh, I am so glad!" she said, with a happy sigh, leaning her head on his
shoulder and gazing fondly up into his face, his right arm about her
waist, while Grace clung to the other hand, holding it lovingly between
her own and pressing her lips to it again and again.

"Ah, my darling little girl," he said presently, letting Violet go to
take Grace in his arms. "Are you glad to see papa back again so soon?"

"Oh, yes, indeed; nothing else could have made me so very, very glad!"
she cried, hugging him close, and giving and receiving many tender
caresses.

"But how did it happen. Levis?" Violet was asking.

"Through some unlooked-for change in the plans and purposes of the
higher powers," he answered, lightly. "My orders were countermanded,
with no reasons given, and I may remain with my family till further
orders; and, as you say, we will hope it may be months before they are
received."

"And you were glad to come back to us?" Violet said, inquiringly, but
with not a shade of doubt in her tones.

"Yes, yes indeed; I was full of joy till I heard that one of my children
had been disobeying me, bringing serious consequences upon herself and
others."

His countenance had grown very grave and stern. "Where is Lulu?" he
asked, glancing about in search of her.

"Down on the beach with mamma and the rest," Violet answered.

"Can you give me a true and full account of her behavior since I have
been away?" he asked.

"My dear husband," Violet said, entreatingly, "please do not ask me."

"Pardon me, dearest," he returned. "I should not have asked you; Lulu
must tell me herself; thankful I am that many and serious as are her
faults, she is yet so honest and truthful that I can put full confidence
in her word and feel sure that she will not deceive me, even to save
herself from punishment."

"I think that is high praise, and that Lulu is deserving of it,"
remarked Violet, glad of an opportunity to speak a word in the child's
favor.

Captain Raymond gave her a pleased, grateful look. "You were going to
the beach, were you not?" he said. "Then please go on; I shall follow
after I have settled this matter with Lulu. There can be no comfort for
her or myself till it is settled. Gracie, go and tell your sister to
come here to me immediately."

"Do be as lenient as your sense of duty will allow, dear husband,"
whispered Violet in his ear, then hastened on her way.

Grace was lingering, gazing at him with wistful, tear-filled eves.

"What is it?" he asked, bending down to smooth her hair caressingly.
"You should go at once, little daughter, when papa bids."

"I would, papa, only--only I wanted to--to ask you not to punish Lulu
very hard."

"I am glad my little Gracie loves her sister," he said; "and you need
never doubt, my darling, that I dearly love both her and you. Go now
and give her my message."

All day long Lulu had kept herself as far apart from the others--her
sister excepted--as lay in her power. She was sitting now alone in the
sand, no one within several yards of her, her hands folded in her lap,
while she gazed far out to sea, her eyes following a sail in the distant
offing.

"Perhaps it is papa's ship," she was saying to herself. "Oh, how long
will it be before we see him again! And oh, how sorry he will be when he
hears about last night and this morning!"

At that instant she felt Grace's arms suddenly thrown round her, while
the sweet child voice exclaimed, in an ecstasy of delight, "Oh, Lu, he
_has_ come! he _has_, he _has_!"

"Who?" Lulu asked, with a start and tremble that reminded Grace of the
message she had to deliver, and that Lulu's pleasure at their father's
unexpected return could not be so unalloyed as her own; all which she
had forgotten for the moment in the rapture of delight she herself felt
at his coming.

"Papa, Lulu," she answered, sobering down, a good deal; "and I was 'most
forgetting that he sent me to tell you to come to him immediately."

"Did he?" Lulu asked, trembling more than before. "Does he know about
last night, Gracie? Did Mamma Vi tell him?"

"He knows 'bout it; somebody told him before he got to 'Sconset," said
Grace. "But mamma didn't tell him at all; he asked her, but she begged
him to please not ask her. Mamma doesn't ever tell tales on us, I'm
sure."

"No, I don't believe she does. But what did papa say then?"

"That you should tell him all about it yourself; you were an honest
child, serious as your faults were, and lie could trust you to own the
truth, even when you were to be punished for it. But, Lulu, you have to
go right up to the house; papa said 'immediately.'"

"Yes," Lulu replied, getting upon her feet very slowly, and looking a
good deal frightened; "did papa seem very angry?"

"I think he intends to punish you," Grace replied, in a sorrowful tone;
"but maybe he won't if you say you're sorry and won't do so any more.
But hurry, Lulu, or he may punish you for not obeying promptly."

"Is Mamma Vi there?" asked Lulu, still lingering.

"No; yonder she is; don't you see?" said Grace, nodding her head in the
direction of the awning under which nearly their whole party were now
seated: "there's nobody there but papa. Oh hurry, Lulu, or he will whip
you, I'm afraid."

"Don't you ever say that before anybody, Gracie," Lulu said, low and
tremulously; then turned and walked rapidly toward the stairway that led
up the bluff to the cottages.

At a window looking toward the bluff the captain stood, watching for
Lulu's coming.

"She is not yielding very prompt obedience to the order," he said to
himself; "but what wonder? The poor child doubtless dreads the
interview extremely; in fact, _I_ should be only too glad to escape it;
'tis no agreeable task to have to deal out justice to one's own child--a
child so lovable, in spite of her faults. How much easier to pass the
matter over slightly, merely administering a gentle reprimand! But no, I
cannot; 'twould be like healing slightly the festering sore that
threatens the citadel of life. I must be faithful to my God-given trust,
however trying to my feelings. Ah, there she is!" as a little figure
appeared at the top of the staircase and hurried across the intervening
space to the open doorway.

There she halted, trembling and with downcast eyes. It was a minute or
more before she ventured to lift them, and then it was a very timid
glance she sent in her father's direction.

He was looking at her with a very grave, rather stern, countenance, and
her eyes fell again, while still she shrank from approaching him.

"You are not very glad to see me, I think," he said, holding out his
hand, but with no relaxing of the sternness of his expression.

"Oh, papa, yes! yes, indeed I am!" she burst out, springing to his side
and putting her hand in his, "even though I suppose you are going to
punish me just as you did the last time."

He drew her to his knee, but without offering her the slightest caress.

"Won't you kiss me, papa?" she asked, with a little sob.

"I will; but you are not to take it as a token of favor; only of your
father's love that is never withdrawn from you, even when he is most
severe in the punishment of your faults," he answered, pressing his lips
again and again to forehead, cheeks, and lips. "What have you done that
you expect so severe a punishment?"

"Papa, you know, don't you?" she said, hiding her blushing face on his
breast.

"I choose to have you tell me; I want a full confession of all the
wrong-doing you have been guilty of since I left you the other day."

"I disobeyed you last night, papa, about taking a long walk by myself;
but it was because I forgot to notice how far I was going; at least, I
didn't notice," she stammered, remembering that she had wilfully
refrained from so doing.

"You forgot? forgot to pay attention to your father's commands? did not
think them of sufficient importance for you to take the trouble to
impress them upon your mind. I cannot accept that excuse as a good and
sufficient one.

"And, tell me honestly, are you not, as I strongly suspect, less careful
to obey your father's orders when he is away, so that you feel yourself
in a measure out of his reach, than when he is close at hand?"

"Papa, you ask such hard questions," she said.

"Hard to my little daughter only because of her own wrong-doing. But
hard or easy, they must be answered. Tell me the truth, would you not
have been more careful to keep within prescribed bounds last night if I
had been at home, or you had known that you would see me here to-day?"

"Yes, papa," she answered, in a low, unwilling tone. "I don't think
anybody else can have quite so much authority over me as you, and--and
so I do, I suppose, act a little more as if I could do as I please when
you are away."

"And that after I have explained to you again and again that in my
absence you are quite as much under the authority of the kind friends
with whom I have placed you as under mine when I am with you. I see
there is no effectual way to teach you the lesson but by punishing you
for disregarding it."

Then he made her give him a detailed account of her ramble of the night
before and its consequences.

When she had gone as far in the narrative as her safe arrival among the
alarmed household, he asked whether her Grandma Elsie inflicted any
punishment upon her.

"No, sir," answered Lulu, hanging her head and speaking in a sullen
tone. "I told her I didn't feel as if anybody had any right to punish me
but you."

"Lulu I did you dare to talk in that way to her?" exclaimed the captain.
"I hope she punished you for your impertinence; for if she did not I
certainly must."

"She lectured me then, and this morning told me my punishment was a
prohibition against wandering away from the rest more than just a few
yards.

"But, papa, they were all so unkind to me at breakfast--I mean all but
Grandma Elsie and Mamma Vi and Gracie. Betty looked sneering, and the
others so cold and distant, and Rosie said something very insulting
about my being a bad, troublesome child and frightening Mamma Vi into a
headache."

"Certainly no more than you deserved," her father said. "Did you bear
it with patience and humility, as you ought?"

"Do you mean that I must answer you, papa?"

"Most assuredly I do; tell me at once exactly what you did and said."

"I don't want to, papa," she said, half angrily.

"You are never to say that when I give you an order," he returned, in a
tone of severity; "never venture to do it again. Tell me, word for word,
as nearly as you can remember it, what reply you made to Rosie's taunt."

"Papa, I didn't say anything to her; I just got up and pushed back my
chair, and turned to leave the table. Then Grandma Elsie asked me what I
wanted, and I said I didn't want anything, but would rather go without
my breakfast than stay there to be insulted. Then she told me to sit
down and eat, and Rosie wouldn't make any more unkind speeches."

"Were they all pleasant to you after that?" he asked.

"No, papa; they haven't been pleasant to me at all to-day; and Uncle
Edward has said hateful things about me, and to me," she went on, her
cheek flushing and her eyes flashing with anger, half forgetting, in
the excitement of passion, to whom she was telling her story, and
showing her want of self-control.

"And I very much fear," he said, gravely, "that you were both passionate
and impertinent. Tell me just what passed."

"If I do you'll punish me, I know you will," she burst out. "Papa, don't
you think it's a little mean to make me tell on myself and then punish
me for what you find out in that way?"

"If my object was merely to give you pain, I think it would be mean
enough," he said, not at all unkindly; "but as I am seeking your best
interests--your truest happiness--in trying to gain full insight into
your character and conduct, meaning to discipline you only for your
highest good, I think it is not mean or unkind. From your unwillingness
to confess to me, I fear you must have been in a great passion and very
impertinent. Is it not so?"

"Papa, I didn't begin it; if I'd been let alone I shouldn't have got in
a passion or said anything saucy."

"Possibly not; but what is that virtue worth which cannot stand the
least trial? You must learn to rule your own spirit, not only when
everything goes smoothly with you, but under provocation; and in order
to help you to learn that lesson--or rather as a means toward teaching
it to you--I shall invariably punish any and every outbreak of temper
and every impertinence of yours that come under my notice when I am at
home. Now, tell me exactly what passed between your Uncle Edward and
yourself."

Seeing there was no escape for her, Lulu complied, faithfully repeating
every word of the short colloquy at the beach when she went down there
directly after breakfast.

Her father listened in astonishment, his face growing sterner every
moment.

"Lucilla," he said, "you are certainly the most impertinent, insolent
child I ever saw! I don't wonder you were afraid to let me know the
whole truth in regard to this affair. I am ashamed of your conduct
toward both your Grandma Elsie and your Uncle Edward. You must apologize
to both of them, acknowledging that you have been extremely impertinent,
and asking forgiveness for it."

Lulu made no reply; her eyes were downcast, her face was flushed with
passion, and wore a stubborn look.

"I won't;" the words were on the tip of her tongue; she had almost
spoken them, but restrained herself just in time; her father's authority
was not to be defied, as she had learned to her cost a year ago.

He saw the struggle that was going on in her breast. "You must do it,"
he said; "you may write your apologies, though, if you prefer that to
speaking them."

He opened a writing-desk that stood on a table close at hand, and seated
her before it with paper, pen, and ink, and bade her write, at his
dictation.

She did not dare refuse, and had really no very strong disinclination to
do so in regard to the first, which was addressed to Grandma Elsie--a
lady so gentle and kind that even proud Lulu was willing to humble
herself to her.

But when it came to Edward's turn her whole soul rose up in rebellion
against it. Yet she dared not say either "I won't" or "I don't want to."
But pausing, with the pen in her fingers:

"Papa," she began timidly, "please don't make me apologize to him; he
had no right to talk to me the way he did."

"I am not so sure of that," the captain said. "I don't blame him for
trying to uphold his mother's authority; and now I think of it, you are
to consider yourself under his control in the absence of your mamma and
the older persons to whom I have given authority over you. Begin at once
and write what I have told you to."

When the notes were written, signed, and folded he put them in his
pocket, turned and paced the floor.

Lulu, glancing timidly into his face, saw that it was pale and full of
pain, but very stern and determined.

"Papa, are you--are you going to punish me?" she asked, tremulously. "I
mean as you did the other day?"

"I think I must," he said, pausing beside her, "though it grieves me to
the very heart to do it; but you have been disobedient, passionate, and
very impertinent; it is quite impossible for me to let you slip. But you
may take your choice between that and being locked up in the bedroom
there for twenty-four hours, on bread and water. Which shall it be?"

"I'd rather take the first, papa," said Lulu, promptly, "because it will
be over in a few minutes, and nobody but ourselves need know anything
about it."

"I made sure you would choose the other," he said, in some surprise;
"yet I think your choice is wise. Come!"

"Oh, papa, I'm so frightened," she said, putting her trembling hand in
his; "you did hurt me so dreadfully the other time; must you be as
severe to-day?"

"My poor child, I am afraid I must," he said; "a slight punishment seems
to avail nothing in your case, and I must do all in my power to make you
a good, gentle, obedient child."

A few minutes later Captain Raymond joined the others on the beach, but
Lulu was not with him. She had been left behind in the bedroom, where
she must stay, he told her, until his return.

Everybody seemed glad to see him; but after greeting them all in turn,
he drew Violet to a seat a little apart from the others.

Grace followed, of course, keeping close to her father's side. "Where is
Lulu, papa?" she asked with a look of concern,

"Up at the house."

"Won't you let her come down here, papa? She loves so to be close down
by the waves."

"She may come after a little," he said, "but not just now." Then taking
two tiny notes from his pocket: "Here, Gracie," he said, "take this to
your Grandma Elsie and this to your Uncle Edward."

"Yes, sir; must I wait for an answer?"

"Oh, no," he replied, with a slight smile; "you may come right back to
your place by papa's side."

Elsie read the little missive handed her at a glance, rose up hastily,
and went to the captain with it in her hand, a troubled look on her
face.

"My dear captain," she said, in a tone of gentle remonstrance, "why did
you do this? The child's offence against me was not a grave one in my
esteem, and I know that to one of her temperament it would be extremely
galling to be made to apologize. I wish you had not required it of her."

"I thought it for her good, mother," he answered; "and I think so still;
she is so strongly inclined to impertinence and insubordination that I
must do all in my power to train her to proper submission to lawful
authority and respect for superiors."

Edward joined them at that moment. He looked disturbed and chagrined.

"Really, captain," he said, "I am not at all sure that Lulu has not as
much right to an apology from me as I to this from her. I spoke to her
in anger, and with an assumption of authority to which I really had no
right, so that there was ample excuse for her not particularly
respectful language to me. I am sorry, therefore, she has had the pain
of apologizing."

"You are very kind to be so ready to over look her insolence," the
captain said; "but I cannot permit such exhibitions of temper, and must,
at whatever cost, teach her to rule her own spirit."

"Doubtless you are right," Edward said; "but I am concerned and
mortified to find that I have got her into such disgrace and trouble. I
must own I am quite attached to Lulu; she has some very noble and
lovable traits of character."

"She has indeed," said his mother; "she is so free from the least taint
of hypocrisy or deceit; so perfectly honest and truthful; so
warm-hearted, too; so diligent and energetic in anything she undertakes
to do--very painstaking and persevering--and a brave, womanly little
thing."

The captain's face brightened very much as he listened to these praises
of his child.

"I thank you heartily, mother and brother," he said; "for the child is
very dear to her father's heart, and praise of her is sweet to my ear. I
can see all these lovable traits, but feared that to other eyes than
mine they might be entirely obscured by the very grave faults joined
with them. But it is just like you both to look at the good rather than
the evil.

"And you have done so much for my children! I assure you I often think
of it with the feeling that you have laid me under obligations which I
can never repay."

"Ah, captain," Elsie said, laughingly, "you have a fashion of making a
great mountain out of a little mole-hill of kindness. Flattery is not
good for human nature, you know, so I shall leave you and go back to
papa, who has a wholesome way of telling me of my faults and failings."

"I really don't know where he finds them," returned Captain Raymond,
gallantly; but she was already out of hearing.

"Nor I," said Violet, replying to his last remark; "mamma seems to me
to be as nearly perfect as a human creature can be in this sinful
world."

"Now don't feel troubled about it, Ned," Zoe was saying to her husband,
who was again at her side. "I think it was just right that she should be
made to apologize to you, for she was dreadfully saucy."

"Yes; but I provoked her, and I ought to be, and am, greatly ashamed of
it. I fear, too, that in so doing I have brought a severe punishment
upon her."

"Why should you think so?"

"Because I know that such a task could not fail to be exceedingly
unpalatable to one of her temperament; and don't you remember how long
she stood out against her father's authority last summer when he bade
her ask Vi's pardon for impertinence to her?"

"Yes; it took nearly a week of close confinement to make her do it; but
as he showed himself so determined in that instance, she probably saw
that it would be useless to attempt opposition to his will in this, and
so obeyed without being compelled by punishment."

"Well, I hope so," he said. "She surely ought to know by this time that
he is not one to be trifled with."

It seemed to Lulu a long time that she was left alone, shut up in the
little bedroom of the cottage, though it was in reality scarcely more
than half an hour. She was very glad when at last she heard her father's
step in the outer room, then his voice as he opened the door and asked,
"Would you like to take a walk with your papa, little girl?"

"Yes indeed, papa!" was her joyful reply.

"Then put on your hat and come."

She made all haste to obey.

"Is Gracie going too, papa? or anybody else?" she asked, putting her
hand confidingly into his.

"No; you and I are going alone this time; do you think you will find my
company sufficient for once?" he asked, smiling down at her.

"Oh yes, indeed, papa; I think it will be ever so nice to have you all
to myself; it's so seldom I can."

They took the path along the bluffs toward "Tom Never's Head."

When they had fairly left the village behind, so that no one could
overhear anything they might say to each other, the captain said, "I
want to have a talk with you, daughter, and we may as well take it out
here in the sweet fresh air, as shut up in the house."

"Oh, yes, papa; it is so much pleasanter! I can hardly bear to stay in
the house at all down here at the seashore; and it seemed a long while
that you left me alone there this afternoon."

"Yes, I suppose so: and I hope I shall not have occasion to do so again.
My child, did you ever consider what it is that makes you so rebellious,
so unwilling to submit to authority, and so ready to fly into a passion
and speak insolently to your superiors?"

"I don't quite understand you papa," she said. "I only know that I can't
bear to have people try to rule me who have no right."

"Sometimes you are not willing to be ruled even by your father; yet I
hardly suppose you would say he has no right?"

"Oh, no, papa; I know better than that," she said, blushing and hanging
her head; "I know you have the best right in the world."

"Yet sometimes you disobey me; at others obey in an angry, unwilling way
that shows you would rebel if you dared.

"And pride is at the bottom of it all. You think so highly of yourself
and your own wisdom that you cannot bear to be controlled or treated as
one not capable of guiding herself.

"But the Bible tells us that God hates pride. 'Every one that is proud
in heart is an abomination to the Lord; though hand join in hand, he
shall not be unpunished.'

"'Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.'

"'Proud and haughty scorner is his name who dealeth in proud wrath.'

"Ah, my dear daughter, I am sorely troubled when I reflect how often you
deal in that. My great desire for you is that you may learn to rule your
own spirit; that you may become meek and lowly in heart, patient and
gentle like the Lord Jesus, 'who when He was reviled, reviled not again;
when He suffered, He threatened not; but committed Himself to Him that
judgeth righteously.' Do you never feel any desire to be like Him?"

"Yes, papa, sometimes; and I determine that I will; but the first thing
I know I'm in a passion again; and I get so discouraged that I think
I'll not try any more to be good; for I just can't."

"It is Satan who puts that thought in your heart," the captain said,
giving her a look of grave concern; "he knows that if he can persuade
you to cease to fight against the evil that is in your nature he is sure
to get possession of you at last.

"He is a most malignant spirit, and his delight is in destroying souls.
The Bible bids us, 'Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary the
devil as a roaring lion walketh about, seeking whom he may devour.'

"We are all sinners by nature, and Satan, and many lesser evil spirits
under him, are constantly seeking our destruction; therefore we have a
warfare to wage if we would attain eternal life, and no one who refuses
or neglects to fight this good fight of faith will ever reach heaven;
nor will any one who attempts it without asking help from on high.

"So if you give up trying to be good you and I will have a sad time;
because it will be my duty to compel you to try. The Bible tells me,
'Withhold not correction from the child; for if thou beatest him with
the rod he shall not die. Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt
deliver his soul from hell.'

"I must if possible deliver you from going to that awful place, and also
from the dreadful calamities indulgence of a furious temper sometimes
brings even in this life; even a woman has been known to commit murder
while under the influence of unbridled rage; and I have known of one who
lamed her own child for life in a fit of passion.

"Sometimes people become deranged simply from the indulgence of their
tempers. Do you think I should be a good and kind father if I allowed
you to go on in a path that leads to such dreadful ends here and
hereafter?"

"No, sir," she said in an awed tone; "and I will try to control my
temper."

"I am glad to hear that resolve," he replied. "The Bible tells us, 'He
that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his
spirit than he that taketh a city.'"

They were silent for a little while, then hanging her head and blushing,
"Papa," she asked, "what did you do with those notes you made me write?"

"Sent them to those to whom they were addressed. And they were very
kind, Lulu; much kinder than you deserved they should be; both your
Grandma Elsie and your Uncle Edward expressed regret that you had been
made to apologize, and spoke of you in affectionate terms."

"I'm glad,'" she said with a sigh of relief; "and I don't mean ever to
be at all impertinent to them again."

"I trust you will not indeed," he said.

"Papa, I think this is about where I was the other evening when I first
noticed that the storm was coming."

"A long way from home for a child of your age; especially alone and at
night. You must not indulge your propensity for wandering to a distance
from home by yourself. You are too young to understand the danger of it;
too young to be a guide to yourself, and must therefore be content to be
guided by older and wiser people.

"You said, a while ago, 'I just can't be good;' did you mean to assert
that you could not help being disobedient to me that evening?"

She hung her head and colored deeply. "It was so pleasant to walk along
looking at the beautiful, changing sea, papa," she said, "that I
couldn't bear to stop, and wouldn't let myself think how far I was
going."

"Ah, just as I suspected; your could not was really would not; the
difficulty all in your will. You must learn to conquer your will when it
would take you in the wrong direction.

"We will turn and go back now, as it is not far from tea-time."

Lulu shrank from meeting the rest of their party, particularly Grandma
Elsie and Edward; but they all treated her so kindly that she was soon
at her ease among them again.




CHAPTER X.

"I am rapt, and cannot
Cover the monstrous bulk of this ingratitude
With any size of words."

--_Shakespeare_.


The next day they all set out soon after breakfast for a long drive,
taking the direction of the camping-ground of the lads, where they
called and greatly astonished Max with a sight of his father, whom he
supposed to be far out on the ocean.

The boy's delight fully equalled his surprise, and he was inclined to
return immediately to 'Sconset; but the captain advised him to stay a
little longer where he was; and he accordingly decided to do so; though
regretting the loss of even an hour of the society of the father who was
to him the best man in the world and the most gallant and capable
officer of the navy; in short, the impersonation of all that was good,
wise, and brave.

The 'Sconset cottages had been engaged only until the first of
September, but by that time our friends were so in love with life upon
the island that learning of some cottages on the cliffs, a little
north-west of Nantucket Town, which were just vacated and for rent, they
engaged two of them and at once moved in.

From their new abodes they had a fine view of the ocean on that side of
the island, and from their porches could watch the swift-sailing yachts
and other vessels passing to and fro.

The bathing-ground was reached by a succession of stairways built in the
face of the cliff. The surf was fine, and bathing less dangerous there
than at 'Sconset. Those of them who were fond of the sport found it most
enjoyable; but the captain took the children into the town almost every
day for a lesson in swimming, where the still bathing made it easy for
them.

And now they took almost daily sails on the harbor, occasionally
venturing out into the ocean itself; pleasant drives also; visiting the
old windmill, the old graveyards, the soldiers' monument, and every
place of interest in the vicinity.

Besides these, there was a little trip to Martha's Vineyard, and several
were taken to various points on the adjacent shores of the mainland.

Much as they had enjoyed 'Sconset life, it now seemed very pleasant to
be again where they could pay frequent visits to libraries and stores,
go to church, and now and then attend a concert or lecture.

And there was a good deal of quiet pleasure to be found in rambles
about the streets and queer byways and lanes of the quaint old town,
looking at its odd houses and gardens, and perhaps catching a glimpse of
the life going on within.

They gained an entrance to some; one day it was to the home of an old
sea captain who had given up his former occupation and now wove baskets
of various sizes and shapes, all very neat, strong and substantial.

There was always something pleasant to do; sometimes it was to take the
cars on the little three-mile railroad to Surfside and pass an hour or
two there; again to visit the Athenaeum and examine its stores of
curiosities and treasures, mostly of the sea; or to select a book from
its library; or to spend an hour among the old china and antique
furniture offered for sale to summer visitors.

They were admitted to see the cast of the dauphin and bought photographs
of it, as well as of many of the scenes in and about the town, with
which to refresh their memories of the delightful old place when far
away, or to show to friends who had never had the pleasure of a visit to
its shores.

Violet spent many an enjoyable hour in sketching, finding no lack of
subjects worthy of her pencil; and those of the party who liked botany
found curious and interesting specimens among the flora of the island.

They had very delightful weather most of the time, but there was an
occasional rainy day when their employments and amusements must be such
as could be found within doors.

But even these days, with the aid of fancy-work, and drawing materials,
newspapers, magazines and books, conversation and games, were very far
from dull and wearisome; often one read aloud while the others listened.

One day Elsie brought out a story in manuscript.

"I have been thinking," she said, "that this might interest you all as
being a tale of actual occurrences during the time of the French
Revolution; as we have been thinking and talking so much of that in
connection with the story of the poor little dauphin."

"What is it? and who is the author?" asked her father.

"It is an historical story written by Betty's sister Molly," she
answered. "For the benefit of the children I will make a few preparatory
remarks," she added, lightly, and with a pleasant smile.

       *       *       *       *       *

"While France was torn by those terrible Internal convulsions, it was
also fighting the combined armies of other nations, particularly
Austria and Prussia, who were moved against it from sympathy with the
king, and a desire to reinstate him on his throne, and a sense of danger
to themselves if the disorganizing principles of the revolutionists
should spread into their territories.

"Piedmont was involved in this conflict. Perhaps you remember that it is
separated from Dauphiny, in France, by the Cottian Alps, and that among
the valleys on the Piedmontese side dwell the Waldenses or
Vaudois-evangelical Christians, who were for twelve hundred years
persecuted by the Church of Rome.

"Though their own sovereigns often joined in these persecutions, and the
laws of the land were always far more oppressive to them than to their
popish fellow-citizens, the Waldenses were ever loyal to king and
country and were sure to be called upon for their defence in time of
war.

"In the spring of  three months after the beheading of King
Louis XVI.--and while the poor queen, the dauphin and the princesses,
his sister and aunt, still languished in their dreadful prisons--a
French army was attempting to enter Piedmont from Dauphiny, which they
could do only through the mountain-passes; and these all the able-bodied
Waldenses and some Swiss troops, under the command of General Godin, a
Swiss officer, were engaged in defending.

"It is among the homes of the Waldenses, thus left defenceless against
any plot their popish neighbors might hatch for their destruction, that
the scene of this story is laid.

"Now, papa, will you be so kind as to read it aloud?" she concluded,
handing it to him.

"With pleasure," he said, and all having gathered around to listen, he
began.

       *       *       *       *       *

"On a lovely morning in the middle of May, 1793, a young girl and a
little lad might have been seen climbing the side of a mountain
overlooking the beautiful Valley of Luserna. They were Lucia and Henri
Vittoria, children of a brave Waldensian soldier then serving in the
army of his king, against the French, with whom their country was at
war.

"Lucia had a sweet, innocent face, lighted up by a pair of large, soft,
dark eyes, and was altogether very fair to look upon. Her lithe, slender
figure bounded from rock to rock with movements as graceful and almost
as swift as those of a young gazelle.

"'Sister,' cried the lad half pantingly, 'how nimble and fleet of foot
you are to-day! I can scarce keep pace with you.'

"'Ah, Henri, it is because my heart is so light and glad!' she returned
with a silvery laugh, pausing for an instant that he might overtake her.

"'Yes,' he said, as he gained her side, 'the good news from my father
and Pierre, and Rudolph Goneto--that they are well and yet unharmed by
French sword or bullet--has filled all our hearts with joy. Is it not to
carry these glad tidings to Rudolph's mother we take this early walk?'

"'Yes; a most pleasant errand, Henri;' and the rose deepened on the
maiden's cheek, already glowing with health and exercise.

"They were now far above the valley, and another moment brought them to
their destination--a broad ledge of rock on which stood a cottage with
its grove of chestnut-trees, and a little patch of carefully cultivated
ground.

"Magdalen Goneto, the mother of Rudolph, a matron of placid countenance
and sweet and gentle dignity of mien had seen their approach and come
forth to meet them.

"She embraced Lucia with grave tenderness, bestowed a kind caress upon
Henri, and leading the way to her neat dwelling, seated them and herself
upon its porch, from which there was a magnificent view of the whole
extent of the valley.

"To the left, and close at hand, lay San Giovanni, with its pretty
villages, smiling vineyards, cornfields and verdant meadows sloping
gently away to the waters of the Pelice. On the opposite side of the
river, situate upon a slight eminence was the Roman Catholic town of
Luserna. To the right, almost at their feet, embowered amid beautiful
trees--chestnut, walnut, and mulberry--La Tour, the Waldensian capital
and home of Lucia and Henri, nestled among its vineyards and orchards.

"Farther up the vale might be seen Bobbi Villar, and many smaller
villages scattered amid the fields and vineyards, or hanging on the
slopes of the hills, while hamlets and single cottages clung here and
there to the rugged mountain-side, wherever a terrace, a little basin or
hollow afforded a spot susceptible of cultivation. Beyond all towered
the Cottian Alps, that form the barrier between Piedmont and Dauphiny,
their snowy pinnacles glittering in the rays of the newly risen sun.

"It was thither the able-bodied men of the valley had gone to defend the
passes against the French.

"Toward those lofty mountains Lucia's soft eyes turned with wistful,
questioning gaze; for there were father, brother, lover, hourly exposed
to all the dangers of war.

"Magdalen noted the look, and softly murmured, 'God, even the God of our
fathers, cover their heads in the day of battle!'

"'He will, I know He will,' said Lucia, turning to her friend with a
bright, sweet smile.

"'You bring me tidings, my child,' said Magdalen, taking the maiden's
hand in hers, 'good tidings, for your face is full of gladness!'

"'Yes, dear friend, your son is well,' Lucia answered with a modest,
ingenuous blush; 'my father also, and Pierre; we had word from them only
yesternight. But ah me!' she added with a sigh, 'what fearful scenes of
blood and carnage are yet enacted in Paris, the gay French capital! for
from thence also, the courier brought news. Blood, he says, flows like
water, and not content with having taken the life of their king, they
force the queen and the rest of the royal family to languish in prison;
and the guillotine is constantly at work dispatching its wretched
victims, whose only crime, in many instances, is that of wealth and
noble birth.'

"'Alas, poor wretches! alas poor king and queen!' cried Magdalen; 'and,
for ourselves, what danger, should such bloodthirsty ruffians force an
entrance into our valleys! The passes had needs be well guarded!'

"Lucia lingered not long with her friend, for home duties claimed her
attention.

"Magdalen went with them to the brow of the hill, and again embracing
Lucia, said in tender, joyous accents, 'Though we must now bid adieu,
dear child, when the war is over you will come to brighten Rudolph's
home and mine with your constant presence.'

"'Yes; such was the pledge he won from me ere we parted,' the maiden
answered with modest sincerity, a tender smile hovering about the full
red lips and a vivid color suffusing for an instant the delicately
rounded cheek.

"Then with an affectionate good-by, she tripped away down the rocky
path, Henri following.

"A glad flush still lingered on the sweet, girlish face, a dewy light
shone in the soft eyes. Her thoughts were full of Magdalen's parting
words and the picture they had called up of the happy married life
awaiting Rudolph and herself when he should return to the pursuits of
peace.

"And he at his post in those more distant mountains, thought of her and
his mother; safe, as he fondly trusted, in the homes his strong arm was
helping to defend against a foreign foe. The Vaudois, judging others by
themselves, were, notwithstanding their many past experiences of the
treacherous cruelty of Rome, strangely unsuspicious of their popish
neighbors.

"The descent was scarcely yet accomplished by our young friends, when
startled by the sound of heavy footsteps and gruff voices in their rear,
and casting a look behind them, they beheld, rapidly approaching by
another path which wound about the base of the mountain, two men of most
ruffianly aspect.

"A wild terror seized upon the maiden as for an instant she caught the
gaze of mingled malice and sensuality they bent upon her; and seizing
Henri's hand, she flew over the ground toward La Tour with the fleetness
of a hunted doe.

"For herself what had she not to fear! and for the child that he might
be slain or reserved for a fate esteemed by the Vaudois worse than
death, in being carried off to Pignerol and brought up in an idolatrous
faith.

"The men pursued, calling to her with oaths, curses, obscene words, and
jeering laughter.

"These but quickened her flight; she gained the bridge over the
Angrogna, sped across it, over the intervening ground, and through the
gate into the town; the footsteps of her pursuers echoing close behind.

"'Ah ha! escaped my embraces for the present, have you, my pretty
barbet?' cried one of the miscreants, following her with gloating, cruel
eyes as she sped onward up the street, feeling only comparatively safe
even there. 'Ah well, it but delays my pleasure a few hours. I know
where to find ye and shall pay my respects to-night.'

"'And I,' added his companion with a fierce laugh; 'to ye and many
another like ye. It's work quite to my taste Holy Mother Church has laid
out for us to-night, Andrea.'

"'Yes, yes, Giuseppe, we'll not quarrel with the work or the wages; all
the plunder we can lay hands on; to say naught of the pretty maids such
as yon, or the escape from the fires of purgatory.'

"They were wending their way to the convent of the R�collets as they
talked. Arrived at its gates they were immediately admitted, to find it
filled with cut-throats such as themselves, and soon learned that the
church also and the house of the cur� were in like condition.

"'Good!' they cried, 'how many names in all?'

"'Seven hundred,' said one.

"'Eight hundred,' asserted another.

"'Well, well, be it which it may, we're strong enough for the work, all
the able-bodied barbetti being on the frontier,' cried Andrea,
exultingly, 'we'll make short shrift with the old men, women and
children.'

"'Yes; long live the holy Roman Church! Hurrah for the holy faith! Down
with the barbetti!' cried a chorus of voices. 'We'll have a second St.
Bartholomew in these valleys and rid them of the hated presence of the
cursed heretics.'

"'That we will,' responded Giuseppe. 'But what's the order of
proceedings?'

"'All the faithful to meet at Luserna at sunset; the vesper bell of the
convent gives the signal shortly after, and we immediately spread
ourselves over the valley on a heretic hunt that from San Giovanni to
Bobbi shall leave not a soul alive to tell the tale.'

"While Magdalen and Lucia conversed in the cottage of the former, M.
Brianza, cur� of Luserna, seated in the confessional, listened with
horror and indignation to a tale of intended wholesale rapine, murder,
and arson, which his penitent was unfolding.

"'I will have neither part nor lot in this thing,' said the priest to
himself, as he left the church a moment later; 'nay more, I shall warn
the intended victims of their danger.'

"Hurrying to his house, he instantly dispatched messengers in all haste
to San Giovanni and La Tour.

"About the same time, in the more remote town of Cavour, the fiendish
plot was revealed to Captain Odetti, an officer of the Piedmontese
militia, then enrolled to act against the French, with a request that he
would take part in its execution. Being a rigid Romanist it was
confidently expected that he would willingly do so.

"But as noble and humane a man as Luserna's good cur�, he listened with
like horror and detestation, and mounting his horse, instantly set off
for La Tour to warn the helpless folk of the threatened calamity, and
assist in averting it, if that might yet be possible.

"He travelled post haste, for time pressed; the appointed hour for the
attack already drew so near that it was doubtful if even the most prompt
action could still avail.

"Pale and breathless with haste and terror, Lucia and Henri gained the
shelter of their home, and in reply to the anxious questioning of mother
and grandparents, told of the hot pursuit of the evil men who had chased
them into the town.

"Their story was heard with much concern, not only by the family, but
also by a young man who had entered nearly at the same moment with
themselves.

"His right arm was in a sling; his face, thin and wan with suffering,
wore an expression of anxiety and alarm which deepened momentarily as
the narrative proceeded.

"'How is Bianca?' he asked, upon its conclusion, the quiet tone telling
nothing of the profound solicitude that filled his breast.

"'Much the same,' returned Sara Vittoria, the mother.

"'A little better, I think,' said a weak but cheerful voice from the
next room. 'Maurice, how is your poor arm? come and tell me.'

"He rose and complied with the request.

"Bianca, the elder sister of Lucia, had been for a year or more the
betrothed of Maurice Laborie. He found her lying pale and languid upon a
couch.

"'What is it, Maurice?' she asked, presently, noticing his troubled
look.

"'I wish you were well, Bianca.'

"'Ah! I am more concerned about your wound.'

"His thoughts seemed far away. He rose hastily.

"'I must speak to your grandsire. I will be in again;' and he left the
room.

"Marc Rozel, the father of Sara Vittoria, a venerable, white-haired
veteran who had seen his four-score years and ten, sat at the open door
of the cottage, leaning upon his staff, his eyes fixed thoughtfully upon
the towering heights of Mount Vandelin.

"'"As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the Lord is round
about His people from henceforth even forever,"' Maurice heard him
murmur as he drew near.

"There was comfort in the words, and the cloud of care partially lifted
from the brow of the young Vaudois. But accosting the aged saint with
deep respect, and bending down to speak close to his ear, he uttered a
few rapid sentences in an undertone.

"'There seems a threatening of danger, Father Rozel; evil-looking men,
such as Lucia and the lad were but now describing, have been seen coming
into the town for the last two or three days; till now, it is said, the
Romish church, the convent of R�collets, the house of the cur�, and
several other Catholic houses are full of them. What errand think you
draws them hither just at this time, when nearly every able-bodied
Vaudois is absent on the frontier?' Rozel's face reflected somewhat of
the agitation and alarm in that of Maurice; but ere he could open his
lips to reply, a neighbor, a young woman with a child in her arms, came
rushing across the street, and calling to them in tones tremulous with
excitement and affright, told of the warning just brought by Brianza's
messenger.

"Her face was white with terror, and she clasped her infant to her
breast with a look of agony, as she asked, 'Can it be, oh can it be that
we are all to be slain in our helplessness? Something must be done, and
that quickly. But what, alas! can we do? our husbands, brothers, fathers
are all at a distance, and the fatal hour draws near.'

"The tones of her voice and some of her words had reached the ears of
those within the cottage, and they now gathered about her in an
intensely excited, terrified group. Question and answer followed in
rapid succession till each knew all that she had heard.

"'Can it be possible?' cried Sara, 'can even popish cruelty,
ingratitude, and treachery go so far? are not our brave defenders theirs
also? keeping the passes against a common foe?'

"A mournful shake of the head from her aged father was the only reply,
save the sobs and cries of the frightened children.

"But at that instant a horseman came dashing up the street, suddenly
drew rein before their dwelling, and hastily dismounting, hurried toward
them.

"'Captain Odetti!' exclaimed Rozel in some surprise.

"'Yes, Rozel, I come to warn you, though, alas! I fear I am too late to
prevent bloodshed,' said the officer, sending a pitying glance from one
to another of the terror-stricken group.

"'There is a conspiracy against you; the assassins are even now on foot;
but if I cannot save, I will perish with you. The honor of my religion
is at stake, and I must justify it by sharing your danger.'

"'Can it be that such designs are really entertained against us?' asked
Rozel, in trembling tones, glancing from one loved face to another with
a look of keenest anguish. 'On what pretext? I know of none.'

"'The late base and cowardly surrender of Fort Mirabouc.'

"'There was but one Vaudois present, and his voice was raised against
it.'

"'True, but what matters that to foes bent upon your destruction? some
one was to blame, and why not make a scapegoat of the hated Vaudois? But
let us not waste time in useless discussion. We must act.'

"The fearful tidings flew from house to house, and in the wildest terror
the feeble folk began to make what preparations they could for
self-defence; by Odetti's advice barricading the streets and houses,
collecting missiles to hurl down from the upper windows upon the heads
of the assassins, and at the same time dispatching messenger after
messenger to General Godin, the Swiss officer in command of the troops
on the frontier, telling of the danger and praying for instant aid.

"But he, alas! unable, in the nobility of his soul, to credit the
existence of a plot so atrocious, turned a deaf ear to their entreaties,
declaring his conviction that the alarm was groundless--a mere
panic--and that his troops could not be spared to go on so useless an
errand.

"As one courier after another returned with this same disheartening
report, the terror and despair were such as to beggar description.

"Lucia Vittoria, recalling, with many a shudder of wild affright, the
evil looks and fierce words and gestures of her pursuers of the morning,
resolved to defend her own, her mother's, and sister's honor to the last
gasp.

"'The terrible excitement of the hour seemed to give her unnatural
strength for her task of lifting and carrying stones and fragments of
rock to be used in repelling the expected assault. Assisted by Henri and
every member of the family capable of the exertion, she toiled
unceasingly while anything yet remained to be done.

"In the midst of their exertions Magdalen Goneto suddenly appeared among
them.

"'I have heard, and I come to live or die with you, dear friends,' she
said, and fell to work with the others.

"At length all was completed, and they could only await in dreadful
suspense the coming of events. They had continued to importune the
commandant, but with no better success than at first.

"In the closed and barricaded dwellings hearts were going up to God in
agonized prayer for help, for deliverance.

"In that of the Vittorias few words were spoken save as now and again
the voice of the aged Rozel or that of his venerable wife, his
daughter, or Magdalen Goneto, broke the awful silence with some promise
from the Book of books to those who trust in the Lord.

"Maurice, whose father and brothers were away with the army, torn with
anxiety for mother, sisters, and betrothed alike, persuaded the former
to follow Magdalen's example in repairing to the house of the Vittorias,
that such efforts as he was able to put forth in his crippled condition
might be made in their common defence.

"Freely would he shed the last drop of his blood to shield them from
harm, but, alas! what match was he for even one of the horde of
desperadoes that would soon be upon them? what could he do? how speedily
would he be overpowered! Help _must_ be obtained.

"He stole out through the garden to learn the latest news from the
frontier.

"The fourteenth courier had just returned in sadness; the commandant was
still incredulous; still firm in his refusal to render aid.

"'We are then given up to the sword of the assassin!' groaned his
hearers.

"'No, no, never! it must not be!' cried Maurice with sudden stern
determination, though there was a quiver of pain in his voice; and
sending a glance of mingled love and anguish toward the cottage that
sheltered those dearer to him than life, he set off at a brisk pace up
the valley.

"Love moved him to the task, and spite of weakness and pain, never
before had he trodden those steep and dangerous mountain paths with such
celerity.

"Arrived and admitted to Godin's presence, he poured out his petition
with the vehemence of one who can take no denial, urging his suit with
all the eloquence of intense anxiety and deep conviction of the terrible
extremity of the feeble folk in the valley.

"Doubt began to creep into the mind of the brave officer. 'Might there
not be some truth in the story after all?' Yet he answered as before. 'A
mere panic. I cannot believe in a plot so atrocious. What! murder in
cold blood the innocent, helpless wives and children of the brave men
who are defending theirs from a common foe? No, no; human nature is not
so depraved!'"

"'So it was thought on the eve of the Sicilian Vespers; on the eve of
St. Bartholomew; at the time when Castracaro, when De La Trinite, when
Pianeza--'

"'Ah,' interrupted the general with a frown, 'but those were deeds of
days long gone by, and men are not now what they then were.'

"'Sir,' returned Maurice earnestly, 'for twelve hundred years the
she-wolf of Rome has ravaged our fold, slaying sheep and lambs
alike--sparing neither age nor sex; and, sir, it is her boast that she
never changes.

"'Nor are men incapable of the grossest injustice and cruelty even in
these days. Look at the fearful scenes of blood enacted even now in
France! General, the lives of thousands of his majesty's evangelical
subjects are trembling in the balance, and I do most solemnly assure you
that unless saved by your speedy interposition, or a direct miracle from
Heaven, they will this night fall victims to a sanguinary plot.

"'Ah, sir, what more can I say to convince, to move you? The assassins
are already assembling, the time wanes fast, and will you stretch forth
no hand to save their innocent, helpless victims?'

"The general was evidently moved by the appeal. 'Had I but sufficient
proof,' he muttered in an undertone of doubt and perplexity.

"Maurice caught eagerly at the word. 'Proof, general! would Odetti,
would Brianza have warned us, were the danger not imminent? And do not
the annals of your own Switzerland furnish examples of similar plots?'

"'True, too true! yet--'

"But at this moment the sixteenth courier came panting up to pour out,
in an agony of haste and fear, the same tale of contemplated wholesale
massacre, and the story reaching the ears of the Vaudois troops they
gathered about the general, imploring, _demanding_ to be sent instantly
to the aid of their menaced wives and children.

"General Godin's mind had been filled with conflicting emotions while
Maurice spoke; his humanity, his honor as a soldier, his duty to the
government, were struggling for the mastery.

"'Ought he to march without orders or even the knowledge of his
superiors? and that too with no more certain proof of the illegal
assembling of those who were said to be plotting against the peace and
safety of the Vaudois families?'

"Yet there was no time to reconnoitre ere the dire mischief might be
done. His humanity at last prevailed over more prudential
considerations. He commanded the brigade of Waldenses to march
instantly, and himself followed with another division.

"Bianca Vittoria had been carried to an upper room, where all the family
were now gathered about her bed.

"With unutterable anguish the mother looked upon her two lovely
daughters in the early bloom of womanhood, the babe sleeping upon her
breast, the little ones clinging to her skirts, her aged and infirm
parents, all apparently doomed to a speedy, violent death--and worse
than death. Her own danger was well-nigh forgotten in theirs.

"Utter silence reigned in that room and the adjoining one, at this time
occupied by Magdalen and the mother and sisters of Maurice; every ear
was strained to catch the sound of the approaching footsteps of the
assassins, or of the longed-for deliverers; a very short season would
now decide their fate. Oh, would help never come!

"Lucia, kneeling beside her sister's couch, clasping one thin, white
hand in hers, suddenly dropped it and sprang to her feet.

"'How fast it grows dark! and what was that?' as a heavy, rolling sound
reverberated among the mountains; 'artillery?' and her tones grew wild
with terror.

"'Thunder; the heavens are black with clouds,' said Magdalen, coming in
and speaking with the calmness of despair.

"A heavy clap nearly drowned her words, then followed crash on crash;
the rain came down in torrents--the wind, which had suddenly risen to
almost a hurricane, dashing it with fury against walls and windows; the
darkness became intense except as ever and anon the lurid glare of the
lightning lit up the scene for an instant, giving to each a momentary
glimpse of the pale, terror-stricken faces of the others.

"'Alas, alas, no help can reach us now!' moaned Sara, clasping her babe
closer to her breast, 'no troops can march over our fearful
mountain-passes in this terrific storm and thick darkness. _We must
die_!'

"'Oh, God of our fathers, save us! let us not fall into the hands of
those ruffians, who--more to be feared than the wild beasts of the
forest--would rob us of honor and of life!' cried Lucia, falling upon
her knees again, and lifting hands and eyes to heaven.

"'Amen!' responded the trembling voice of Rozel. 'Lord, Thine hand is
not shortened that it cannot save, neither Thine ear heavy that it
cannot hear!'

"The scenes that followed what pen may portray! the wild anguish of some
expressed in incoherent words, shrieks of terror, and cries for help, as
they seemed to hear amid the roar of the elements the hurried footsteps
of the assassins, and to see in the lightning's flash the glitter of
their steel; the mute agony of others as in the calmness of despair they
crouched helplessly together awaiting the coming blow.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Meanwhile the fathers, husbands, sons, brothers were hastening
homeward, their brave hearts torn with anguish at thought of the
impossibility of arriving before the hour set for the murderers to begin
their fiendish work.

"There was no regular order of march, but each rushed onward at his
utmost speed, praying aloud to God for help to increase it, and calling
frantically to his fellows to 'hasten, _hasten_ to the rescue of all
they held most dear.'

"Alas for their hopes! the shades of evening were already falling, and
the storm presently came on in terrific violence, the darkness, the
blinding momentary glare of the lightning, the crashing thunder peals,
the driving, pouring rain and fierce wind greatly increasing the
difficulties and perils of their advance. God Himself seemed to be
against them.

"But urged on by fear and love for their helpless ones, and by parties
of distracted women and children sent forward from La Tour--some of
whom, in their terror and despair, asserted that the work of blood had
already begun--they pressed onward without a moment's pause, springing
from rock to rock, sliding down precipices, scaling giddy heights,
leaping chasms which at another time they would not have dared to
attempt, and tearing through the rushing, roaring mountain torrents
already greatly swollen by the rain.

"They reached the last of these, and dashing through it, were presently
in sight of La Tour, when the tolling of the vesper bell of the convent
of the R�collets--the preconcerted signal for the assassins to sally
forth--smote upon their ears.

"'Too late! too late!' cried Rudolph Goneto hoarsely.

"'But if too late to save, we will avenge!' responded a chorus of deep
voices, as with frantic haste they sped over the intervening space.

"The next moment the tramp of their feet and the clang of their arms
were heard in the streets of the town. Windows and doors flew open and
with cries and tears of joy and thankfulness, wives, children, and aged
parents gathered about them almost smothering them with caresses.

"The storm, which had seemed to seal their doom, had proved their
salvation--preventing some of the murderers from reaching the rendezvous
in season, and so terrifying the others that they dared not attempt the
deed alone; especially as it had already begun to be rumored that troops
were on the march to the threatened valley.

"Rudolph found himself encircled by his mother's arms, her kisses and
tears warm upon his cheek.

"He held her close, both hearts too full for speech. Then a single word
fell from the soldier's lips, 'Lucia?'

"'Safe.'

"Darting into the house, guided by some subtle instinct, he stood the
next moment in the upper room where she knelt by her sister's couch, the
two mingling their tears and thanksgivings together.

"All was darkness, but at sound of the well-known step Lucia sprang up
with a cry of joy. 'Saved!'

"Rudolph's emotions, as he held her to his heart, were too big for
utterance.

"Some one entered with a light. It was Magdalen, and behind her came
Maurice, pale, haggard, and dripping with rain.

"Bianca's heart gave a joyous bound. He too was safe.

"But a tumult of voices from below--some stern, angry, threatening,
others sullen, dogged, defiant, or craven with abject terror--attracted
their attention.

"Magdalen set down the light and hurried away in the direction of the
sounds, Rudolph and Lucia following.

"A number of the Waldenses, sword in hand, and eyes flashing with
righteous indignation, were gathered about two of the would-be
assassins, caught by them almost on the threshold of the cottage.

"Their errand who could doubt? and Henri had recognized them as his and
Lucia's pursuers of the morning.

"She too knew them instantly, and clung pale with affright to Rudolph's
arm, while he could scarce restrain himself from rushing upon, and
running them through with his sword.

"'Spare us, sirs,' entreated Andrea, quaking with fear under the
wrathful glance of the father of the maidens, 'spare us; we have not
harmed you or yours.'

"'Nor plotted their destruction? Miserable wretch, ask not your life
upon the plea that it is not forfeit. Can I doubt what would have been
the fate of my wife and daughters had they fallen into your hands?'

"'But your religion teaches you to forgive.'

"'True; yet also to protect the helpless ones committed to my care.'

"'We will leave your valleys this hour; never to set foot in them
again.'

"'Ah! yet how far may we trust the word of one whose creed bids him keep
no faith with heretics?'

"'" Vengeance is Mine, I will repay."'

"It was the voice of the aged Rozel which broke the momentary silence.

"Vittoria sheathed his sword. Not his to usurp the prerogative of Him
who had that night given so signal deliverance to His 'Israel of the
Alps.'"

"Is that all?" asked Lulu, drawing a long breath, as Mr. Dinsmore
refolded the manuscript and gave it back to his daughter.

"Yes," he said, "the author has told of the deliverance of the
imperilled ones, and that Vittoria refrained from taking vengeance upon
their cowardly foes; and so ends the story of that night of terror in
the valleys."

"But were all the Waldenses equally forbearing, grandpa?" asked Zoe.

"They were; in all the valleys not a drop of blood was shed; justly
exasperated though the Waldenses were, they contented themselves with
sending to the government a list of the names of the baffled
conspirators.

"But no notice was taken of it; the would-be murderers were never called
to account till they appeared before a greater than an earthly tribunal.

"But General Godin was presently superseded in his command and shortly
after dismissed the service. Two plain indications that the sympathy of
the government was with the assassins and not at all with their intended
victims."

"But is it true, sir?" asked Max.

"Yes; it is true that at that time, in those valleys, and under those
circumstances, such a plot was hatched and its carrying out prevented in
the exact way that this story relates."

"Mean, cowardly, wicked fellows they must have been to want to murder
the wives and children and burn and plunder the houses of the men that
were defending them and theirs from a common enemy!" exclaimed the boy,
his face flushing and eyes flashing with righteous indignation.

"Very true; but such are the lessons popery teaches and always has
taught; 'no faith with heretics,' no mercy to any who deny her dogmas;
and that anything is right and commendable which is done to destroy
those who do not acknowledge her authority and to increase her power;
one of her doctrines being that the end sanctifies the means!"

"But what did they mean when they said they were going to have a second
St. Bartholomew in the valleys?" asked Grace.

"Did you never hear of the massacre of St. Bartholomew, daughter?" her
father asked, stroking her hair caressingly as she sat upon his knee.

"No, papa; won't you tell me about it?"

"It occurred in France a little more than three hundred years ago; it
was a dreadful massacre of the Protestants to the number of from sixty
to a hundred thousand; and it was begun on the night of the twenty-third
of August; which the Papists call St. Bartholomew's Day.

"The Protestants were shot, stabbed, murdered in various ways, in their
beds, in the street, any where that they could be found; and for no
crime but being Protestants."

"And popery would do the very same now and here, had she the power,"
commented Mr. Dinsmore, "for it is her proudest boast that she never
changes. She teaches her own infallibility; and what she has done she
will do again if she can."

"What is infallibility, papa?" asked Grace. "To be infallible is to be
incapable of error or of making mistakes," he answered. "So popery
teaching that she has never done wrong or made a mistake justifies all
the horrible cruelties she practised in former times; and, in fact, she
occasionally tells us, through some of her bolder or less wary
followers, that what she has done she will do again as soon as she
attains the power."

"Which she never will in this free land," exclaimed Edward.

"Never, provided Columbia's sons are faithful to their trust;
remembering that 'eternal vigilance is the price of liberty,'" responded
his grandfather.

Grace was clinging tightly to her father, and her little face was pale
and wore a look of fright.

"What is it, darling?" he asked.

"O papa, will they come here some time and kill us?" she asked,
tremulously.

"Do not be frightened, my dear little one," he said, holding her close;
"you are in no danger from them."

"I don't believe all Roman Catholics would have Protestants persecuted
if they could," remarked Betty. "Do you, uncle?"

"No; I think there are some truly Christian people among them," he
answered; "some who have not yet heard and heeded the call, 'Come out of
her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye
receive not of her plagues.' We were talking, not of Papists, but of
Popery. Sincere hatred of the system is not incompatible with sincere
love to its deluded followers."




CHAPTER XI.

"My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O Lord; in the morning will I
direct my prayer unto thee, and will look up."


It was early morning; Captain Raymond was pacing to and fro along the
top of the cliffs, now sending a glance seaward, and now toward the door
of the cottage which was his temporary home, as if expecting a companion
in his ramble.

Presently the door opened and Lulu stepped out upon the porch. One eager
look showed her father, and she bounded with joyful step to meet him.

"Good-morning, my dear papa," she cried, holding up her face for a kiss,
which he gave with hearty affection.

"Good-morning, my dear little early bird," he responded. "Come, I will
help you down the steps and we will pace the sands at the water's edge."

This was Lulu's time for having her father to herself, as she phrased
it. He was sure to be out at this early hour, if the weather would
permit, and she almost equally sure to join him: and as the others
liked to lie a little longer in bed, there was seldom any one to share
his society with her.

He led her down the long flights of stairs and across the level expanse
of sand, close to where the booming waves dashed up their spray.

For some moments the two stood hand in hand silently gazing upon sea and
sky, bright with the morning sunlight; then they turned and paced the
beach for a time, and then the captain led his little girl to a seat in
the porch of a bathing-house, from which they could still look far out
over the sea.

"Papa," she said, nestling close to his side, "I am very fond of being
down here all alone with you."

"Are you, daughter?" he said, bending down to caress her hair and cheek.
"Well, I dearly love to have my little girl by my side. How long have
you been up?"

"I can't tell exactly; because, you know, papa, there is no time-piece
in my room. But I wasn't long dressing; for I didn't want to lose a
minute of the time I might have out here with you."

"Did you do nothing but put on your clothes after leaving your bed?" he
asked, gravely.

"I washed my hands and face and smoothed my hair."

"And was that all?"

She glanced up at him in surprise at the deep gravity of his tone; then
suddenly comprehending what his questioning meant, hung her head, while
her cheek flushed hotly. "Yes, papa," she replied, in a low, abashed
tone.

"I am very, very sorry to hear it," he said. "If my little girl begins
the day without a prayer to God for help to do right, without thanking
Him for His kind care over her while she slept, she can hardly expect to
escape sins and sorrows which will make it anything but a happy day."

"Papa, I do 'most always say my prayers in the morning and at night; but
I didn't feel like doing it this time. Do you think people ought to pray
when they don't feel like it?"

"Yes; I think that is the very time when they most need to pray; they
need to ask God to take away the hardness of their hearts; the evil in
them that is hiding His love and their own needs; so that they have no
gratitude to express for all His great goodness and mercy to them, no
petitions to offer up for strength to resist temptation and to walk
steadily in His ways; no desire to confess their sins and plead for
pardon for Jesus' sake. Ah! that is certainly the time when we have most
urgent need to pray.

"Jesus taught that men (and in the Bible men stand for the whole human
race) 'ought always to pray and not to faint.' And we are commanded to
pray without ceasing."

"Papa, how can we do that?" she asked. "You know we have to be doing
other things sometimes."

"It does not mean that we are to be always on our knees," he said; "but
that we are to live so near to God, so loving Him, and so feeling our
constant dependence upon Him, that our hearts will be very often going
up to His throne in silent petition, praise or confession.

"And if we live in such union with Him we will highly prize the
privilege of drawing especially near to Him at certain seasons; we will
be glad to be alone with Him often, and will not forget or neglect to
retire to our closets night and morning for a little season of close
communion with our best and dearest Friend.

"You say you love to be alone with me, your earthly father; I trust the
time will come when you will love far better to be alone with your
heavenly Father. I must often be far away from you, but He is ever near;
I may be powerless to help you, though close at your side, but He is
almighty to save, to provide for, and to defend; and He never turns a
deaf ear to the cry of His children."

"Yes, papa; but oh I wish that you were always near me too," she said,
leaning her cheek affectionately against his arm. "I am very, very
sorry that ever I have been a trouble to you and spoiled your enjoyment
of your visits home."

"I know you are, daughter; but you have been very good of late. I have
rejoiced to see that you were really trying to rule your own spirit. So
far as I know, you have been entirely and cheerfully obedient to me, and
have not indulged in a single fit of passion or sullenness."

"Yes, papa; but I have been nearly in a passion two or three times; but
you gave me a look just in time to help me to resist it. But when you
are gone I shall not have that help."

"Then, my child, you must remember that your heavenly Father is looking
at you; that He bids you fight against the evil of your nature, and if
you seek it of Him, will give you strength to overcome. Here is a text
for you; I want you to remember it constantly; and to that end repeat it
often to yourself, 'Thou, God, seest me.'

"And do not forget that He sees not only the outward conduct but the
inmost thoughts and feelings of the heart."

A boy's glad shout and merry whistle mingled pleasantly with the sound
of the dashing of the waves, and Max came bounding over the sands toward
their sheltered nook.

"Good-morning, papa," he cried. "You too, Lulu. Ahead of me as usual, I
see!"

"Yes," the captain said, reaching out a hand to grasp the lad's and
gazing with fatherly affection and pride into the handsome young face
glowing with health and happiness, "she is the earliest young bird in
the family nest. However, she seeks her roost earlier than her brother
does his."

"Yes; and I am not so very late, am I, sir?"

"No, my boy, I do not suppose you have taken any more sleep than you
need for your health and growth; and I certainly would not have you do
with less."

"I know you wouldn't, papa; such a good, kind father as you are,"
responded Max. "I wouldn't swap fathers with any other boy," he added,
with a look of mingled fun and affection.

"Nor would I exchange my son for any other; not even a better one,"
returned the captain laughingly, tightening his clasp of the sturdy
brown hand he held.

"I haven't heard yet the story of yesterday's success in boating and
fishing; come sit down here by my side and let me have it."

Max obeyed, nothing loath, for he was becoming quite expert in both, and
always found in his father an interested listener to the story of his
exploits.

He and the other lads had returned from their camping at the time of the
removal of the family party from 'Sconset to Nantucket Town.

On the conclusion of his narrative the captain pronounced it breakfast
time, and they returned to the house.

After breakfast, as nearly the whole party were gathered upon the porch,
discussing the question what should be the amusements of the day, a near
neighbor with whom they had some acquaintance, ran in to ask if they
would join a company who were going over to Shimmo to have a clam-bake.

"The name of the place is new to me," remarked Mr. Dinsmore. "Is it a
town, Mrs. Atwood?"

"Oh, no," replied the lady, "there is only one dwelling; a farmhouse
with its barns and other out-houses comprises the whole place. It is on
the shore of the harbor some miles beyond Nantucket Town. It is a
pleasant spot, and I think we shall have an enjoyable time; particularly
if I can persuade you all to go."

"A regular New England clam-bake!" said Elsie, "I should really like to
attend one, and am much obliged for your invitation, Mrs. Atwood; as we
all are, I am sure."

No one felt disposed to decline the invitation, and it was soon settled
that all would go.

The clam-bake was to occupy only the afternoon; so they would have time
to make all necessary arrangements, and for the customary surf and
still baths.

Mrs. Atwood had risen to take leave. "Ah," she said, "I was near
forgetting something I meant to say: we never dress for these
expeditions, but, on the contrary, wear the oldest and shabbiest dresses
we have; considering them altogether the most suitable to the occasion,
as then we need not be troubled if they should be wet with spray or
soiled by contact with seaweed, grass, or anything else."

"A very sensible custom," Mrs. Dinsmore responded, "and one which we
shall all probably follow."

Mrs. Atwood had hardly reached the gate when Lulu, turning to her father
with a very discontented face, exclaimed, "I don't want to wear a shabby
old dress! Must I, papa?"

"You will wear whatever your Grandma Elsie or mamma directs," he
answered, giving her a warning look. Then motioning her to come close to
his side, he whispered in her ear, "I see that you are inclined to be
ill-tempered and rebellious again, as I feared you would, when I learned
that you had begun the day without a prayer for help to do and feel
right. Go, now, to your room and ask it."

"You needn't fret, Lu; you don't own a dress that any little girl ought
to feel ashamed to wear," remarked Betty, as the child turned to obey.

"And we are all going to wear the very worst we have here with us, I
presume," added Zoe; "at least such is my intention."

"Provided your husband approves," whispered Edward sportively.

"Anyhow," she answered, drawing herself up in pretended offence; "can't
a woman do as she pleases even in such trifles?"

"Ah I but it is the privileges of a child-wife which are under
discussion now,"

"Now, sir, after that you shall just have the trouble of telling me what
to wear," said Zoe, rising from the couch where they had been sitting
side by side; "come along and choose."

Lulu was in the room where she slept, obeying her father's order so far
as outward actions went; but there was little more than lip-service in
the prayer she offered, for her thoughts were wandering upon the subject
of dress, and ways and means for obtaining permission to wear what she
wished that afternoon.

By the time she had finished "saying her prayers," she had also reached
a conclusion as to her best plan for securing the desired privilege.

Grandma Elsie was so very kind and gentle that there seemed more hope of
moving her than any one else; so to her she went, and, delighted to find
her comparatively alone, no one being near enough to overhear a
low-toned conversation, began at once:

"Grandma Elsie, I want to wear a white dress to the clam-bake; and I
think it would be suitable, because the weather is very warm, and white
will wash, so that it would not matter if I did get it soiled."

"My dear child, it is your father's place to decide what concerns his
children, when he is with them," Elsie said, drawing the little girl to
her and smoothing her hair with soft, caressing touch.

"Yes, ma'am; but he says you and Mamma Vi are to decide this. So if you
will only say I may wear the white dress, he will let me. Won't you,
please?"

"If your father is satisfied with your choice I shall certainly raise no
objection; nor will your mamma, I am quite sure."

"Oh, thank you, ma'am!" and Lulu ran off gleefully in search of her
father.

She found him on the veranda, busied with the morning paper, and to her
satisfaction, he too was alone.

"What is it, daughter?" he asked, glancing from his paper to her
animated, eager face.

"About what I am to wear this afternoon, papa. I would like to wear the
white dress I had on yesterday evening, and Grandma Elsie does not
object, and says she knows Mamma Vi will not, if you say I may."

"Did she say she thought it a suitable dress?" he asked gravely.

Lulu hung her head. "No, sir; she didn't say that she did or she
didn't."

"Go and ask her the question."

Lulu went back and asked it.

"No, my child, I do not," Elsie answered. "It is very unlikely that any
one else will be in white or anything at all dressy, and you will look
overdressed, which is in very bad taste; besides, though the weather
seems warm enough for such thin material here on shore, it will be a
great deal cooler on the water; and should the waves or spray come
dashing over us, you would find your dress clinging to you like a wet
rag--neither beauty nor comfort in it."

"I could wear a waterproof over it while we are sailing," said Lulu.

"Even that might not prove a perfect protection," Elsie replied. "I
think, my dear, you will do well to content yourself to wear your
travelling dress, which is of a light woollen material, neat without
being too dressy, and of a color that will not show every little soil.
And it is as good and handsome as the dress I shall wear or as Rosie,
and probably any one else, will have on."

"But you can choose for yourself, Grandma Elsie, and I wish I could."

"That is one of the privileges of older years," Elsie answered
pleasantly. "I was considerably older than you are before I was allowed
to select my own attire. But I repeat that I shall not raise the
slightest objection to your wearing anything your father is willing to
see on you."

Lulu's hopes were almost gone, but she would make one more effort.

She went to her father, and putting her arms round his neck, begged in
her most coaxing tones for the gratification of her wish.

"What did your Grandma Elsie say?" he asked.

Lulu faithfully, though with no little reluctance, repeated every word
Elsie had said to her on the subject.

"I entirely agree with her," said the captain; "so entirely that even
had she found no objection to urge against it, I should have forbidden
you to wear the dress."

Lulu heard him with a clouded brow; in fact, the expression of her face
was decidedly sullen. Her father observed it with sorrow and concern.

"Sit down here till I am ready to talk to you," he said, indicating a
chair close at his side.

Lulu obeyed, sitting quietly there while he finished his paper. Throwing
it aside at length, he took her hand and drew her in between his knees,
putting an arm about her waist.

"My little daughter," he said, in his usual kind tone, "I am afraid you
care too much for dress and finery. What I desire for you is that you
may 'be clothed with humility,' and have 'the ornament of a meek and
quiet spirit, which is, in the sight of God, of great price.'"

"I never can have that, papa, for it isn't a bit like me," she said,
with a sort of despairing impatience and disgust at herself.

"No, that is too true; it is not like you as you are by nature--the evil
nature inherited from me; but God is able to change that, to give you a
clean heart and renew within you a right spirit. Jesus is a Saviour from
sin (He saves none in their sins), and He is able to save to the
uttermost, able to take away the very last remains of the old corrupt
nature with which we were born.

"Oh, my child, seek His help to fight against it and to overcome! It
grieves me more than I can express to see you again showing an unlovely,
wilful temper."

"Oh, papa, don't be grieved," she said, throwing her arms round his neck
and pressing her lips to his cheek. "I will be good and wear whatever
I'm told; look pleasant about it too, for indeed I do love you too well
to want to grieve you and spoil your pleasure."

"Ah, that is my own dear little girl," he answered, returning her
caresses.

The sullen expression had vanished from her face and it wore its
brightest look, yet it clouded again the next moment, but with sorrow,
not anger, as she sighed, "Oh! if you were always with us, papa, I think
I might grow good at last; but I need your help so much, and you are
gone more than half the time."

"Your heavenly Father is never gone, daughter, and will never turn a
deaf ear to a cry for strength to resist temptation to sin. He says, 'In
me is thine help.'

"And we are told, 'God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be
tempted above that ye are able; but will with the temptation also make a
way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it.'"

In the mean time Mrs. Dinsmore, who from choice took most of the
housekeeping cares, was ordering an early dinner and various baskets of
provisions for the picnic.

As the family sat down to the table, these last were being conveyed on
board a yacht lying at the little pier near the bathing-place below the
cliffs; and almost immediately upon finishing their meal, all, old and
young, trooped down the stairways, across the sandy beach, and were
themselves soon aboard the vessel.

Others of the company were already seated in it, and the rest following
a few minutes later, and the last basket of provisions being safely
stowed away in some safe corner of the craft, they set sail, dragging at
their stern a dory in which was a large quantity of clams in the shell.

It was a bright day, and a favorable breeze sent the yacht skimming over
the water at an exhilarating rate of speed. All hearts seemed light,
every face was bright, not excepting Lulu's, though she was attired in
the plain colored dress recommended by Grandma Elsie.

There was no greater display of finery than a knot of bright ribbon, on
the part of even the gayest young girl present. Betty wore a black
bunting--one of her school dresses--with a cardinal ribbon at the
throat; Zoe the brown woollen that had for her such mingled associations
of pain and pleasure, and looked wonderfully sweet and pretty in it,
Edward thought.

They sat side by side, and Betty, watching them furtively, said to
herself, "They are for all the world just like a pair of lovers yet,
though they have been married over a year."

Then turning her attention first to Violet and Captain Raymond, then
upon her Aunt and Uncle Dinsmore, she came to the same conclusion in
regard to them also.

"And it was just so with cousin Elsie and her husband," she mused. "I
can remember how devoted they were to each other. But she seems very
happy now, and she well may be, with father, sons and daughters all so
devoted to her. And she's so rich too; never has to consider how to make
one dollar do the work of two; a problem I am so often called upon to
solve. In fact, it is to her and uncle, Bob and I owe our education, and
pretty much everything we have.

"I don't envy her her money, but I do the love that has surrounded her
all her life. She never knew her own mother, to be sure, but her father
petted and fondled her as a child, and was father and mother both to
her, I've often heard her say; while mine died before I was born, and
mother lost her reason when I was a little thing."

But Betty was not much given to melancholy musing, or indeed to musing
of any kind; a passing sail presently attracted her attention and turned
her thoughts into a new channel.

And soon, the wind and tide being favorable, the yacht drew near her
destination.

There was no wharf, but the passengers were taken to the shore, a few at
a time, in the dory. It also landed provision baskets and the clams.

Those ladies and gentlemen to whom clam-bakes were a new experience
watched with interest the process of cooking the bivalves.

A pit of suitable size for the quantity to be prepared was made in the
sand, the bottom covered with stones; it was then heated by a fire
kindled in it, the brands were removed, seaweed spread over the stones,
the clams poured in, abundance of seaweed piled over and about them, a
piece of an old sail put over that, and they were left to bake or steam,
while another fire was kindled near by, and a large tin bucket, filled
with water, set on it to boil for making coffee.

While some busied themselves with these culinary operations, others
repaired to the dwelling, which stood some little distance back from the
beach, the ground sloping gently away from it to the water's edge.

The lady of the house met them at the door, and hospitably invited them
to come in and rest themselves in her parlor, or sit on the porch; and
understanding their errand to the locality, not only gave ready
permission for their table to be spread in the shade of her house, but
offered to lend anything they might require in the way of utensils.

Accepting her offer, they set to work, the men making a rough sort of
impromptu table with some boards, and the ladies spreading upon it the
contents of the provision baskets.

Mrs. Dinsmore, Elsie and the younger ladies of their party, offered to
assist in these labors, but were told that they were considered guests,
and must be content to look on or wander about and amuse themselves.

There was not much to be seen but grassy slopes destitute of tree or
shrub, and the harbor and open sea beyond.

They seated themselves upon the porch of the dwelling-house, while
Captain Raymond and the younger members of their family party wandered
here and there about the place.

There seemed to be some sport going on among the cooks--those engaged in
preparing the coffee.

Lulu hurried toward them to see what it was about, then came running
back to her father, who stood a little farther up the slope, with Grace
clinging to his hand.

"Oh!" she said with a face of disgust, "I don't mean to drink any of
that coffee; why, would you believe it, they stirred it with a poker?"

"Did they?" laughed the captain; "they might have done worse. I presume
that was used for lack of a long enough spoon. We must not be too
particular on such occasions as this."

"But you won't drink any of it, will you, papa?"

"I think it altogether likely I shall."

"Why, papa! coffee that was stirred with a dirty poker?"

"We will suppose the poker was not very dirty," he said, with a
good-humored smile; "probably there was nothing worse on it than a
little ashes, which, diffused through so large a quantity of liquid,
could harm no one."

"Must I drink it if they offer me a cup?"

"No; there need be no compulsion about it; indeed, I think it better for
a child of your age not to take coffee at all."

"But you never said I shouldn't, papa."

"No; because you had formed the habit in my absence, and, as I am not
sure that it is a positive injury to you, I have felt loath to deprive
you of the pleasure."

"You are so kind, papa," she said, slipping her hand into his and
looking up affectionately into his face. "But I will give up coffee if
you want me to. I like it, but I can do without it."

"I think milk is far more wholesome for you," he said, with a smile of
pleased approval. "I should like you to make that your ordinary beverage
at meals, but I do not forbid an occasional cup of coffee."

"Thank you, papa," she returned. "Grandma Elsie once told me that when
she was a little girl her father wouldn't allow her to drink coffee at
all, or to eat any kind of hot cakes or rich sweet cake; and oh I don't
know how many things that she liked he wouldn't let her have. I don't
think he was half as nice a father as ours; do you, Gracie?"

"'Course I don't, Lu; I just think we've got the very best in the whole
world," responded Grace, laying her cheek affectionately against the
hand that held hers in its strong, loving clasp.

"That is only because he is your own, my darlings," the captain said,
smiling down tenderly upon them.

A lady had drawn near, and now said, "Supper is ready, Captain Raymond;
will you bring your little girls and come to the table?"

"Thank you; we will do so with pleasure," he said, following her as she
led the way.

The table, covered with a snow-white cloth and heaped with tempting
viands, presented a very attractive appearance.

The clams were brought on after the most of the company were seated,
with their coffee and bread and butter before them. They were served hot
from the fire and the shell, in neat paper trays, and eaten with melted
butter. Eaten thus they make a dish fit for a king.

By the time that all appetites were satisfied, the sun was near his
setting, and it was thought best to return without delay.

On repairing to the beach, they found the tide so low that even the dory
could not come close to dry land; so the ladies and children were
carried through the water to the yacht. This gave occasion for some
merriment.

"You must carry me, Ned, if I've got to be carried," said Zoe; "I'm not
going to let anybody else do it."

"No; nor am I," he returned, gayly, picking her up and striding forward.
"I claim it as my especial privilege."

Mr. Dinsmore followed with his wife, then Captain Raymond with his.

"Get in, Mr. Dinsmore," said the captain, as they deposited their
burdens; "there is no occasion for further exertion on your part; I'll
bring mother."

"No, sir," said Edward, hurrying shoreward again, "that's my task; you
have your children to take care of."

"Your mother is my child, Ned, and I think I shall take care of her,"
Mr. Dinsmore said, hastening back to the little crowd still at the
water's edge.

"We will have to let her decide which of us shall have the honor," said
the captain.

"That I won't," Mr. Dinsmore said, laughingly, stepping to his
daughter's side and taking her in his arms.

"Now, you two may take care of the younger ones," he added, with a
triumphant glance at his two rivals.

"Ah, Ned, we are completely outwitted," laughed the captain.

"Yes; with grandpa about one can't get half a chance to wait upon
mother. Betty, shall I have the honor and pleasure of conveying you
aboard of yonder vessel?"

"Yes, thank you; I see Harold and Herbert are taking Rosie and Walter,"
she said. "But I warn you that I am a good deal heavier than Zoe."

"Nevertheless, I think my strength will prove equal to the exertion," he
returned, as he lifted her from the ground.

Lulu and Grace stood together, hand in hand, Max on Gracie's other side.

"Take Gracie first, please, papa," said Lulu; "she is frightened, I
believe."

"Frightened?" he said, stooping to take her in his arms; "there is
nothing to be afraid of, darling. Do you think papa would leave you
behind or drop you into the water?"

"No; I know you wouldn't," she said, with a little nervous laugh, and
clinging tightly about his neck.

"Mayn't I wade out, papa?" Max called after him.

"Yes; but stay with your sister till I come for her."

"Where's my baby, Levis?" asked Violet, laughingly, as he set Grace down
by her side.

"The baby! Sure enough, where is it?" he exclaimed, with an anxious
glance toward the shore.

"Ah, there stands the nurse with it in her arms. You shall have it in
yours in a moment."

"Here's the baby, papa; please take her first; I don't mind waiting,"
said Lulu, as he stepped ashore again.

He gave her a pleased, approving look. "That is right; it will be but a
minute or two," he said, as he took the babe and turned away with it.

In a few minutes more, all the passengers were aboard, and they set
sail; but they had not gone far when it became evident that something
was amiss; they were making no progress.

"What is the matter?" asked several voices, and Violet looked
inquiringly at her husband.

"There is no cause for apprehension," he said; "we are aground, and may
possibly have to wait here for the turn of the tide; that's all."

"It's the lowest tide I ever saw," remarked the captain of the yacht;
"we'll have to lighten her; if some of the heaviest of you will get into
the dory, it will help."

Quite a number immediately volunteered to do so, among them Edward and
Zoe, Bob and Betty, Harold and Herbert. The dory was speedily filled,
and then, with a little more exertion the yacht was set afloat.

They moved out into deep water, and a gentle breeze wafted them
pleasantly toward their desired haven.

"Look at the sun, papa," Elsie said, gazing westward. "It has a very
peculiar appearance."

"Yes," he said, "it looks a good deal like a balloon; it's redness
obscured by that leaden-colored cloud. It is very near its setting; we
shall not get in till after dark."

"But that will not matter?"

"Oh, no; our captain is so thoroughly acquainted with his vessel, the
harbor and the wharf, that I have no doubt he would land us safely even
were it much darker than it will be."

Zoe and Edward, in the dory, were talking with a Nantucket lady, a Mrs.
Fry.

"How do you like our island, and particularly our town?" she asked.

"Oh, ever so much!" said Zoe. "We have visited a good many
watering-places and sea-side resorts, but never one where there was so
much to see and to do; so many delightful ways of passing the time. I
think I shall vote for Nantucket again next year, when we are
considering where to pass the hot months."

"And I," said Edward, "echo my wife's sentiments on the subject under
discussion."

"Your wife" the lady exclaimed, with a look of surprise.

"I took her to be your sister; you are both so very young in
appearance."

"We are not very old," laughed Edward; "Zoe is but sixteen, but we have
been married a year."

"You have begun early; it is thought by some that early marriages are
apt to be the happiest, and I should think them likely to be, provided
the two are willing to conform their tastes and habits each to those of
the other. I trust you two have a long life of happiness before you."

"Thank you," they both said, Edward adding, "I think we are disposed to
accommodate ourselves to each other, and whether our lives be long or
short, our trials many or few, I trust we shall always find great
happiness in mutual sympathy, love and confidence."

The lady asked if they had seen all the places of interest on the
island, and in reply they named those they had seen.

"Have you been to Mrs. Mack's?" she asked.

"No, madam, we have not so much as heard of her existence," returned
Edward, sportively. "May I ask who and what she is?"

"Yes; she is the widow of a sea-captain, who has a collection of
curiosities which she keeps on exhibition, devoting the proceeds, so
she says, to benevolent purposes. She is an odd body; herself the
greatest curiosity she has to show, I think. You should visit her museum
by all means."

"We shall be happy to do so if you will kindly put us in the way of it,"
said Edward. "How shall we proceed in order to gain admittance?"

"If we can get up a party it will be easy enough; I shall then send her
word, and she will appoint the hour when she will receive us; she likes
to show her independence, and will not exhibit unless to a goodly
number.

"I know of several visitors on the island who want to go, and if your
party will join with them there will be no difficulty."

"I think I can promise that we will," said Edward. "I will let you know
positively to-morrow morning."

"That will do nicely. Hark, they are singing aboard the yacht."

They listened in silence till the song was finished.

"I recognized most of the voices," Mrs. Fry remarked, "but two lovely
sopranos were quite new to me. Do you know the owners?" turning
smilingly to Edward.

"My mother and sister," he answered, with proud satisfaction.

"Naturally fine, and very highly cultivated," she said. "You must be
proud of them."

"I am," Edward admitted, with a happy laugh.

The sun was down and twilight had fairly begun. Grace, seated on her
father's knee, was gazing out over the harbor.

"See, papa, how many little lights close down to the water!" she said.

"Yes; they are lamps on the small boats that are sailing or rowing
about; they show them for safety from running into each other."

"And they look so pretty."

"Yes, so they do; and it is a sight one may have every evening from the
wharf. Shall I take you down there some evening and let you sit and
watch them as they come and go?"

"Oh, yes, do, papa; I think it would be so nice! And you would take Max
and Lulu too, wouldn't you?"

"If they should happen to want to go; there are benches on the wharf
where we can sit and have a good view. I think we will try it to-morrow
evening if nothing happens to prevent."

"Oh, I'm so glad! You are such a good, kind papa," she said,
delightedly, giving him a hug.

"The very best you have ever had, I suppose," he responded, with a
pleased laugh.

"Yes, indeed," she answered, na�vely, quite missing the point of his
jest.

On reaching home Edward and Zoe reported their conversation with the
lady in the dory, and asked, "Shall we not go?"

"I think so, by all means, since it is for benevolent objects," said
Elsie.

"Or anyhow, since we feel in duty bound to see all that is to be seen on
this island," said Captain Raymond.

No dissenting voice was raised, and when the next morning word came that
Mrs. Mack would exhibit that afternoon if a party were made up to
attend, they all agreed to go.

The distance was too great for ladies and children to walk, so carriages
were ordered. Captain Raymond and his family filled one.

"This is the street that oldest house is on," remarked Lulu, as they
turned a corner; "I mean that one we went to see; that has the big
horse-shoe on its chimney."

"What do they have that for, papa?" asked Grace.

"In old times when many people were ignorant and superstitious, it was
thought to be a protection from witches."

"Witches, papa? what are they?"

"I don't think there are any, really," he said, with a kindly smile into
the eagerly inquiring little face; "but in old times it was a very
common belief that there were people--generally some withered-up old
women--who had dealings with Satan, and were given power by him to
torment, or bring losses and various calamities upon any one whom they
disliked.

"When you are a little older you shall hear more about it, and how that
foolish belief led to great crimes and cruelties inflicted upon many
innocent, harmless people. But now, while my Gracie is so young and
timid, I do not want her to know too much about such horrors."

"Yes, papa," she responded; "I won't try to know till you think I'm
quite old enough."

Several vehicles drew up at the same moment in front of Mrs. Mack's
door, and greetings and some introductions were exchanged on the
sidewalk and door-steps. Edward introduced his mother and Mrs. Fry to
each other, and the latter presented to them a Mrs. Glenn, who, she
said, was a native of Nantucket, but had only recently returned after an
absence of many years.

"Mrs. Mack knew me as a young girl," Mrs. Glenn remarked, "and I am
quite curious to see whether she will recognize me."

At that instant the door was opened in answer to their ring, and they
were invited to enter and walk into the parlor.

They found it comfortably furnished and neat as wax. Seating themselves
they waited patiently for some moments the coming of the lady of the
house.

At length she made her appearance; a little old lady, neatly attired,
and with a pleasant countenance.

Mrs. Fry saluted her with a good-afternoon, adding, "I have brought some
friends with me to look at your curiosities. This lady," indicating Mrs.
Glenn, "you ought to know, as you were acquainted with her in her
girlhood."

"Do you know me, Mrs. Mack?" asked Mrs. Glenn, offering her hand.

"Yes, you look as natural as the pigs," was the rather startling reply;
accompanied, however, by a smile and cordial shake of the offered hand.

"Now, we'll take the money first to make sure of it," was the next
remark, addressed to the company in general.

"What is your admission fee?" asked Mr. Dinsmore, producing his
pocketbook.

"Fifteen cents apiece."

"By no means exorbitant if your collection is worth seeing," he
returned, good-humoredly. "Never mind your purses, Elsie, Raymond, Ned,
I'll act as paymaster for the party."

The all-important business of collecting the entrance fees having been
duly attended to, Mrs. Mack led the way to an upper room where
minerals, shells, sharks' teeth, and various other curiosities and
relics were spread out upon tables and shelves, ranged along the sides
and in the centre of the apartment.

"Now," she said, "the first thing is to register your names. You must
all register. You begin," handing the book to Mr. Dinsmore, "you seem to
be the oldest."

"I presume I am," he said, dryly, taking the book and doing as he was
bidden. "Now, you, Raymond," passing it on to the captain, "we'll take
it for granted that you are next in age and importance."

"That's right, captain," laughed Betty, as he silently took the book and
wrote his name, "it wouldn't be at all polite to seem to think yourself
younger than any lady present."

"Of course not, Miss Betty; will you take your turn next?"

"Of course not, sir; do you mean to insinuate that I am older than Aunt
Rose?" she asked, passing the book on to Mrs. Dinsmore.

"Don't be too particular about going according to ages," said Mrs. Mack,
"it takes up too much time."

"You may write my name for me, Ned," said Zoe, when he took the book.

"Yes, write your sister's name for her; it'll do just as well," said
Mrs. Mack.

"But I'm not his sister," said Zoe.

"What, then? is he your lover?"

"No," Edward said, laughing, "we're husband and wife."

"You've begun young," she remarked, taking the book and passing it on;
"don't look as if you'd cut your wisdom teeth yet, either of you. When
the ladies have all registered, some of you grown folks had better do it
for the children."

Having seen all their names duly inscribed in her register, "Seat
yourselves," she said, waving her hand toward some benches and chairs.

Then, with the help of a half-grown girl, she set out a small circular
table, placed a box upon it, pushed up chairs and a bench or two, and
said, "Now, as many of you as can, come and sit round this table; the
others shall have their turn afterward."

When all the places were filled, she opened the box and took from it a
number of beautifully carved articles--napkin-rings, spoons, etc.

"Now, all take your turns in looking at this lovely carved work, while I
tell you its story," she said, "the story of how it came into my
possession."

"You see, my husband was a sea-captain, and upon one occasion, when he
was about setting sail for a long voyage, a young man, or lad--he was
hardly old enough to be called a man--came and asked to be taken as one
of the crew. He gave a name, but it wasn't his true name, inherited
from his father, as my husband afterward discovered. But not suspecting
anything wrong, he engaged the lad, and took him with him on the voyage.

"And the lad behaved well aboard the ship, and he used to carve
wonderfully well--as you may see by looking at these articles--just with
a jack-knife, and finally--keeping at it in his leisure moments--he made
all these articles, carving them out of sharks' teeth.

"You can see he must have had genius; hadn't he? and yet he'd run away
from home to go to sea, as my husband afterward had good reason to
believe."

She made a long story of it, spinning out her yarn until the first set
had examined the carved work to their satisfaction.

Then, "Reverse yourselves," she said, indicating by a wave of her hand,
that they were to give place at the table to the rest of the company.

When all had had an opportunity to examine the specimens of the lad's
skill, the young girl was ordered to restore them to the box, but first
to count them.

That last clause brought an amused smile to nearly every face in the
audience, but Lulu frowned, and muttered, "Just as if she thought we
would steal them!"

Next, Mrs. Mack began the circuit of the room, carrying a long slender
stick with which she pointed out those which she considered the most
interesting of her specimens or articles of virtu.

One of these last was a very large, very old-fashioned back-comb, having
a story with a moral attached, the latter recited in doggerel rhyme.

She had other stories, in connection with other articles, to tell in the
same way. In fact, so many and so long were they, that the listeners
grew weary and inattentive ere the exhibition was brought to a close.

The afternoon was waning when they left the house. As Captain Raymond
and his family drove into the heart of the town on their way home, their
attention was attracted by the loud ringing of a hand-bell, followed now
and again by noisy vociferation, in a discordant, man's voice.

"So the evening boat is in," remarked the captain.

"How do you know, papa?" asked Grace.

"By hearing the town-crier calling his papers; which could not have come
in any other way."

"What does he say, papa?" queried Lulu. "I have listened as intently as
possible many a time, but I never can make out more than a word or two,
sometimes not that."

"No more can I," he answered, with a smile; "it sounds to me like 'The
first news is um mum, and the second news is mum um mum, and the third
news is um um mum."

The children all laughed.

"Yonder he is, coming this way," said Max, leaning from the carriage
window.

"Beckon to him," said the captain; "I want a paper."

Max obeyed; the carriage stopped, the crier drew near and handed up the
paper asked for.

"How much?" inquired the captain.

"Five cents, sir."

"Why, how is that? You asked me but three for yesterday's edition of
this same paper."

"More news in this one."

"Ah, you charge according to the amount of news, do you?" returned the
captain, laughing, and handing him a nickel.

"Yes, sir; I guess that's about the fair way," said the crier, hastily
regaining the sidewalk to renew the clang, clang of his bell and the "um
mum mum" of his announcement.




CHAPTER XII.

"Wave high your torches on each crag and cliff.
Let many lights blaze on our battlements;
Shout to them in the pauses of the storm,
And tell them there is hope."

--_Maturings "Bertram."_


The evening was cool, and our whole party were gathered in the parlor of
the cottage occupied by the Dinsmores and Travillas--games, fancy-work,
reading, and conversation making the time fly.

Edward and Zoe had drawn a little apart from the others, and were
conversing together in an undertone.

"Suppose we go out and promenade the veranda for a little," he said,
presently. "I will get you a wrap and that knit affair for your head
that I think so pretty and becoming."

"Crocheted," she corrected; "yes, I'm quite in the mood for a promenade
with my husband; and I'm sure the air outside must be delightful. But
you won't have to go farther than that stand in the corner for my
things."

He brought them, wrapped the shawl carefully about her, and they went
out.

Betty, looking after them, remarked aside to her Cousin Elsie, "How
lover-like they are still!"

"Yes," Elsie said, with a glad smile: "they are very fond of each other,
and it rejoices my heart to see it."

"And one might say exactly the same of the captain and Violet," pursued
Betty, in a lower tone, and glancing toward that couple, as they sat
side by side on the opposite sofa--Violet with her babe in her arms, the
captain clucking and whistling to it, while it cooed and laughed in his
face--Violet's ever-beautiful face more beautiful than its wont, with
its expression of exceeding love and happiness as her glance rested now
upon her husband and now upon her child.

"Yes," Elsie said again, watching them, with a joyous smile still
wreathing her lips and shining in her eyes; "and it is just so with my
dear Elsie and Lester. I am truly blest in seeing my children so well
mated and so truly happy."

"Zoe, little wife," Edward was saying, out on the veranda, "can you
spare me for a day or two?"

"Spare you, Ned? How do you mean?"

"I should like to join the boys--Bob, Harold, and Herbert--in a little
trip on a sailing vessel which leaves here early to-morrow morning and
will return on the evening of the next day or the next but one. I should
ask my little wife to go with us, but, unfortunately, the vessel has no
accommodations for ladies. What do you say, love? I shall not go without
your consent."

"Thank you, you dear boy, for saying that," she responded,
affectionately, squeezing the arm on which she leaned; "go if you want
to; I know I can't help missing the kindest and dearest husband in the
world, but I shall try to be happy in looking forward to the joy of
reunion on your return."

"That's a dear," he said, bending down to kiss the ruby lips. "It is a
great delight to meet after a short separation, and we should miss that
entirely if we never parted at all."

"But oh, Ned, if anything should happen to you!" she said, in a
quivering voice.

"Hush, hush, love," he answered, soothingly; "don't borrow trouble;
remember we are under the same protection on the sea as on the land, and
perhaps as safe on one as on the other."

"Yes; but when I am with you I share your danger, if there is any, and
that is what I wish; for oh, Ned, I couldn't live without you!"

"I hope you may never have to try it, my darling," he said, in tender
tones, "or I be called to endure the trial of having to live without
you; yet we can hardly hope to go together.

"But let us not vex ourselves with useless fears. We have the promise,
'As thy days, so shall thy strength be.' And we know that nothing can
befall us without the will of our Heavenly Father, whose love and
compassion are infinite. 'We know that all things work together for good
to them that love God.'"

"But if one is not at all sure of belonging to Him?" she said, in a
voice so low that he barely caught the words.

"Then the way is open to come to Him. He says, 'Come unto me.' 'Him that
cometh unto me, I will in no wise cast out.' The invitation is to you,
love, as truly as if addressed to you alone; as truly as if you could
hear His voice speaking the sweet words and see His kind eyes looking
directly at you.

"It is my ardent wish, my most earnest, constant prayer, that my beloved
wife may speedily learn to know, love, and trust in Him who is the Way,
the Truth, and the Life!"

"You are so good, Ned! I wish I were worthy of such a husband," she
murmured, half sighing as she spoke.

"Quite a mistake, Zoe," he replied, with unaffected humility; "to hear
you talk so makes me feel like a hypocrite. I haves no righteousness of
my own to plead, but, thanks be unto God, I may rejoice in the imputed
righteousness of Christ! And that may be yours, too, love, for the
asking.

"'Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it
shall be opened unto you.'

"They are the Master's own words; and He adds: 'For every one that
asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh
it shall be opened.'"

Meanwhile the contemplated trip of the young men was under discussion in
the parlor. "Dear me!" said Betty, who had just heard of it, "how much
fun men and boys do have! Don't you wish you were one of them, Lulu?"

"No, I don't," returned Lulu, promptly. "I'd like to be allowed to do
some of the things they do that we mustn't, but I don't want to be a
boy."

"That is right," said her father; "there are few things so unpleasant to
me as a masculine woman, who wishes herself a man and tries to ape the
stronger, coarser sex in dress and manners. I hope my girls will always
be content, and more than content, to be what God has made them."

"If you meant to hit me that time, captain," remarked Betty, in a lively
tone, "let me tell you it was a miserable failure, for I don't wish I
was a man, and never did. Coarse creatures, as you say--present company
always excepted--who would want to be one of them."

"I'd never have anything to do with one of them if I were in your place,
Bet," laughed her brother.

"Perhaps I shouldn't, only that they seem a sort of necessary evil," she
retorted. "But why don't you invite some of us ladies to go along?"

"Because you are _not_ necessary evils," returned her brother, with a
twinkle of fun in his eye.

"You should, one and all, have an invitation if we could make you
comfortable," said Harold, gallantly: "but the vessel has absolutely no
accommodations for ladies."

"Ah, then, you are excusable," returned Betty.

The young men left the next morning, after an early breakfast. Zoe and
Betty drove down to the wharf with them to see them off, and watched the
departing vessel till she disappeared from sight.

Zoe went home in tears, Betty doing her best to console her.

"Come, now, be a brave little woman; it's for only two or three days at
the farthest. Why, I'd never get married if I thought I shouldn't be
able to live so long without the fortunate man I bestowed my hand upon."

"Oh, you don't know anything about it, Betty!" sobbed Zoe. "Ned's all I
have in the world, and it's so lonesome without him! And then, how do I
know that he'll ever get back? A storm may come up and the vessel be
wrecked."

"That's just possible," said Betty, "and it's great folly to make
ourselves miserable over bare possibilities--things which may never
happen."

"Oh, you are a great deal too wise for me!" said Zoe, in disgust.

"Oh," cried Betty, "if it's a pleasure and comfort to you to be
miserable--to make yourself so by anticipating the worst--do so by all
means. I have heard of people who are never happy but when they are
miserable."

"But I am not one of that sort," said Zoe, in an aggrieved tone. "I am
as happy as a lark when Ned is with me. Yes, and I'll show you that I
can be cheerful even without him."

She accordingly wiped her eyes, put on a smile, and began talking in a
sprightly way about the beauty of the sea as they looked upon it, with
its waves dancing and sparkling in the brilliant light of the morning
sun.

"What shall we do to-day?" queried Betty.

"Take a drive," said Zoe.

"Yes; I wish there was some new route or new place to go to."

"There's a pretty drive to the South Shore, that maybe you have not
tried yet," suggested the hackman.

"South Shore? That's another name for Surfside, isn't it?" asked Betty.

"It's another part of the same side of the island I refer to," he
answered. "It's a nice drive through the avenue of pines--a road the
lovers are fond of--and if the south wind blows, as it does this
morning, you have a fine surf to look at when you get there."

"If a drive is talked of to-day, let us propose this one, Zoe," said
Betty.

"Yes; I dare say it is as pleasant as any we could take," assented Zoe.
"I wish Edward was here to go with us."

Elsie, with her usual thoughtfulness for others, had been considering
what could be done to prevent Zoe from feeling lonely in Edward's
absence. She saw the hack draw up at the door, and meeting the young
girls on the threshold with a bright face and pleasant smile: "You have
seen the boys off?" she said, half inquiringly. "The weather is so
favorable, that I think they can hardly fail to enjoy themselves
greatly."

"Yes, mamma, I hope they will; but ah, a storm may come and wreck them
before they can get back," sighed Zoe, furtively wiping away a tear.

"Possibly; but we won't be so foolish as to make ourselves unhappy by
anticipating evils that may never come," was the cheery rejoinder. "The
Edna has a skilful captain, a good crew, and is doubtless entirely
seaworthy--at least so Edward assured me--and for the rest we must trust
in Providence.

"Come in, now, and let me give you each a cup of coffee. Your breakfast
with the boys was so early and so slight, that you may find appetite for
a supplement," she added, sportively, as she led the way into the cosey
little dining-room of the cottage, where they found a tempting repast
spread especially for them, the others having already taken their
morning meal.

"How nice in you, Cousin Elsie!" exclaimed Betty. "I wasn't expecting to
eat another breakfast, but I find a rapidly coming appetite; these
muffins and this coffee are so delicious."

"So they are," said Zoe. "I never knew anybody else quite so kindly
thoughtful as mamma."

"I think I know several," Elsie rejoined; "but it is very pleasant to be
so highly appreciated. Now, my dear girls, you will confer a favor if
you will tell me in what way I can make the day pass most pleasantly to
you."

"Thank you, cousin. It is a delightful morning for a drive, I think,"
said Betty; then went on to repeat what their hackman had said of the
drive to the South Shore.

"It sounds pleasant. I think we will make up a party and try it," Elsie
said. "You would like it, Zoe?"

"Yes, mamma, better than anything I know of beside. The man says that
just there the beach has not been so thoroughly picked over for shells
and other curiosities, and we may be able to find some worth having."

No one had made any special plans for the day, so all were ready to fall
into this proposed by Zoe and Betty. Hacks were ordered--enough to hold
all of their party now at hand--and they started.

They found the drive all it had been represented. For some distance
their way lay along the bank of a long pond, pretty to look at and
interesting as connected with old times and ways of life on the island.
Their hackmen told them that formerly large flocks of sheep were raised
by the inhabitants, and this pond was one of the places where the sheep
were brought at a certain time of year to be washed and shorn. On
arriving at their destination, they found a long stretch of sandy beach,
with great thundering waves dashing upon it.

"Oh," cried Zoe and Betty, in delight, "it is like a bit of 'Sconset!"

"Look away yonder," said Lulu; "isn't that a fisherman's cart?"

"Yes," replied her father. "Suppose we go nearer and see what he is
doing."

"Oh, yes; do let us, papa!" cried Lulu, always ready to go everywhere
and see everything.

"You may run on with Max and Grace," he said; "some of us will follow
presently."

He turned and offered his arm to Violet. "It is heavy walking in this
deep sand; let me help you."

"Thank you; it is wearisome, and I am glad to have my husband's strong
arm to lean upon," she answered, smiling sweetly up into his eyes as she
accepted the offered aid.

The young girls and the children came running back to meet them. "He's
catching blue-fish," they announced; "he has a good many in his cart."

"Now, watch him, Mamma Vi; you haven't had a chance to see just such
fishing before," said Max. "See, he's whirling his drail; there! now he
has sent it far out into the water. Now he's hauling it in, and--oh yes,
a good big fish with it."

"What is a drail?" Violet asked.

"It is a hook with a long piece of lead above it covered with eel-skin,"
answered her husband.

"There it goes again!" she exclaimed. "It is a really interesting
sight, but rather hard work, I should think."

When tired of watching the fisherman, they wandered back and forth along
the beach in search of curiosities, picking up bits of sponge, rockweed,
seaweed, and a greater variety of shells than they had been able to find
on other parts of the shore which they had visited.

It was only when they had barely time enough left to reach home for a
late dinner that they were all willing to enter the carriages and be
driven away from the spot.

As they passed through the streets of the town, the crier was out with
his hand-bell.

"Oh yes! oh yes! all the windows to be taken out of the Athenaeum
to-day, and the Athenaeum to be elevated to-night."

After listening intently to several repetitions of the cry, they
succeeded in making it out.

"But what on earth does he mean?" exclaimed Betty.

"Ventilated, I presume," replied the captain. "There was an exhibition
there last night, and complaints were made that the room was close."

Toward evening of the next day our friends in the cliff cottages began
to look for the return of the Edna with the four young men of their
party. But night fell, and yet they had not arrived.

Elsie began to feel anxious, but tried not to allow her disturbance to
be perceived, especially by Zoe, who seemed restless and ill at ease,
going often out to the edge of the cliff and gazing long and intently
toward that quarter of the horizon where she had seen the Edna disappear
on the morning she sailed out of Nantucket harbor.

She sought her post of observation for the twentieth time just before
sunset, and remained there till it grew too dark to see much beyond the
line of breakers along the shore below.

Turning to re-enter the house, she found Captain Raymond standing by her
side.

"O captain," she cried, "isn't it time the Edna was in?"

"I rather supposed they would be in a little earlier than this, but am
not at all surprised that they are not," he answered, in a cheery tone.
"Indeed, it is quite possible that they may not get in till to-morrow.
When they left it was uncertain that they would come back to-day. So, my
good sister, I think we have no cause for anxiety."

"Then I shall try not to be anxious," she said; "but it seems like a
month since I parted from Ned, and it's a sore disappointment not to see
him to-night. I don't know how Vi stands your long absences, captain."

"Don't you suppose it's about as hard for me as for her, considering
how charming she is?" he asked, lightly.

"Perhaps it is; but men don't live in their affections as women do; love
is only half the world to the most loving of them, I verily believe,
while it's all the world to us."

"There is some truth in that," he acknowledged; "we men are compelled to
give much time and thought to business, yet many of us are ardent lovers
or affectionate husbands. I, for one, am extremely fond of wife and
children."

"Yes, I am sure of it, and quite as sure that Ned is very fond of me."

"There isn't a doubt of it. I think I have never seen a happier couple
than you seem to be, or than Leland and his Elsie; yet Violet and I will
not yield the palm to either of you."

"And was there ever such a mother-in-law as mamma?" said Zoe. "I don't
remember my own mother very distinctly, but I do not believe I could
have loved her much better than I do Edward's mother."

"Words would fail me in an attempt to describe all her excellences," he
responded. "Well, Lulu, what is it?" as the child came running toward
them.

"Tea is ready, papa, and Grandma Rose says 'please come to it.'"

Shortly after leaving the table, the captain, noticing that Zoe seemed
anxious and sad, offered to go into the town and inquire if anything had
been seen or heard of the Edna.

"Oh, thank you," she said, brightening; "but won't you take me along?"

"Certainly, if you think you will not find the walk too long and
fatiguing."

"Not a bit," she returned, hastily donning hat and shawl.

"Have you any objection to my company, Levis?" Violet asked, with
sportive look and tone.

"My love, I shall be delighted, if you feel equal to the exertion," he
answered, with a look of pleasure that said more than the words.

"Quite," she said. "Max, I know you like to wait on me; will you please
bring my hat and shawl from the bedroom there?"

"Yes, indeed, with pleasure, Mamma Vi," the boy answered, with alacrity,
as he hastened to obey.

"Three won't make as agreeable a number for travelling the sidewalks as
four, and I ought to be looking out for Bob," remarked Betty; "so if
anybody will ask me to go along perhaps I may consent."

"Yes, do come," said Zoe. "I'll take you for my escort."

"And we will walk decorously behind the captain and Vi, feeling no fear
because under the protection of his wing," added the lively Betty. "But
do you think, sir, you have the strength and ability to protect three
helpless females?" she asked, suddenly wheeling round upon him.

"I have not a doubt I can render them all the aid and protection they
are at all likely to need in this peaceful, law-abiding community," he
answered, with becoming gravity, as he gave his arm to his wife, and led
the way from the house.

"It is a rather lonely but by no means dangerous walk, Cousin Betty," he
added, holding the gate open for her and the others to pass out.

"Lonely enough for me to indulge in a moderate amount of fun and
laughter, is it not, sir?" she returned, in an inquiring tone.

She seemed full of life and gayety, while Zoe was unusually quiet.

They walked into the town and all the way down to the wharf; but the
Edna was not there, nor could they hear any news of her. Zoe seemed full
of anxiety and distress, though the others tried to convince her there
was no occasion for it.

"Come, come, cheer up, little woman," the captain said, seeing her eyes
fill with tears. "If we do not see or hear from them by this time
to-morrow night, we may begin to be anxious; but till then there is
really no need."

"There, Zoe, you have an opinion that is worth something, the captain
being an experienced sailor," remarked Betty. "So thry to be aisy, my
dear, and if ye can't be aisy, be as aisy as ye can!"

Zoe laughed faintly at Betty's jest; then, with a heroic effort, put on
an air of cheerfulness, and contributed her full quota to the sprightly
chat on the homeward walk.

She kept up her cheerful manner till she had parted from the rest for
the night, but wet her solitary pillow with tears ere her anxiety and
loneliness were forgotten in sleep.

Her spirits revived with the new day, for the sun rose clear and bright,
the sea was calm, and she said to herself, "Oh, surely the Edna will
come in before night, and Ned and I will be together again!"

Many times that day both she and his mother scanned intently the wide
waste of waters, and watched with eager eyes the approach of some
distant sail, hoping it might prove the one they looked and longed for.

But their hopes were disappointed again and again; noon passed, and the
Edna was not in sight.

"Mamma, what can be keeping them?" sighed Zoe, as the two stood together
on the brow of the hill, still engaged in their fruitless search.

"Not necessarily anything amiss," Elsie answered. "You remember that
when they went it was quite uncertain whether they would return earlier
than to-night; so let us not suffer ourselves to be uneasy because they
are not yet here."

"I am ashamed of myself," Zoe said. "I wish I could learn to be as
patient and cheerful as you are, mamma."

"I trust you will be more so by the time you are my age," Elsie said,
putting an arm about Zoe's waist and drawing her close, with a tender
caress. "I still at times feel the risings of impatience; I have not
fully learned to 'let patience have her perfect work.'

"There is an old proverb, 'A watched pot never boils,'" she added, with
sportive look and tone. "Suppose we seat ourselves in the veranda yonder
and try to forget the Edna for awhile in an interesting story. I have a
new book which looks very interesting, and has been highly commended in
some of the reviews. We will get papa to read it aloud to us while we
busy ourselves with our fancy-work. Shall we not?"

Zoe assented, though with rather an indifferent air, and they returned
to the house.

Mr. and Mrs. Dinsmore, the only ones they found there, the others being
all down on the beach, fell readily into the plan; the book and the work
were brought out, and the reading began.

It was a good, well-told story, and even Zoe presently became thoroughly
interested.

Down on the beach Violet and the captain sat together in the sand, he
searching sea and sky with a spyglass.

She noticed a look of anxiety creeping over his face.

"What is it, Levis?" she asked.

"I fear there is a heavy storm coming," he said. "I wish with all my
heart the Edna was in. But I trust they have been wise enough not to put
out to sea and are safe in harbor some where."

"I hope so, indeed," she responded, fervently, "for we have much
precious freight aboard of her. But the sky does not look very
threatening to me, Levis."

"Does it not? I wish I could say the same. But, little wife, are you
weatherwise or otherwise?" he asked, laughingly.

"Not wise in any way except as I may lay claim to the wisdom of my other
half," she returned, adopting his sportive tone.

"Ah," she exclaimed the next moment, "I, too, begin to see some
indications of a storm; it is growing very dark yonder in the
northeast!"

Betty came hurrying up, panting and frightened. "O captain, be a dear,
good man, and say you don't think we are to have a storm
directly--before Bob and the rest get safe to shore!"

"I should be glad to oblige you, Betty," he said, "but I cannot say
that; and what would it avail if I did? Could my opinion stay the
storm?"

"Zoe will be frightened to death about Edward," she said, turning her
face seaward again as she spoke, and gazing with tear-dimmed eyes at the
black, threatening cloud fast spreading from horizon to zenith, "and
I--oh, Bob is nearer to me than any other creature on earth!"

"Let us hope for the best, Betty," the captain said, kindly; "it is
quite possible, perhaps I might say probable, that the Edna is now lying
at anchor in some safe harbor, and will stay there till this storm is
over."

"Oh, thank you for telling me that!" she cried. "I'll just try to
believe it is so and not fret, though it would pretty nearly kill me if
anything should happen to Bob. Still, it will do no good to fret."

"Prayer would do far more," said Violet, softly--"prayer to Him whom
even the winds and the sea obey. But isn't it time to go in, Levis? the
storm seems to be coming up so very fast."

"Yes," he said, rising and helping her to get on her feet. "Where are
the children?"

"Yonder," said Betty, nodding in their direction. "I'll tell them--shall
I?"

"No, thank you; you and Violet hurry on to the house as fast as you can;
I will call the children, follow with them, and probably overtake you in
time to help you up the stairs."

Before they were all safely housed, the wind had come down upon them and
was blowing almost a gale. It was with considerable difficulty the
captain succeeded in getting them all up the long steep flights of
stairs by which they must reach the top of the cliff.

About the time they started for the house the party on the veranda
became aware that a storm was rising.

Zoe saw it first, and dropped her work in her lap with the cry, "Oh, I
knew it would be so! I just knew it! A dreadful storm is coming, and the
Edna will be wrecked, and Edward will drown. I shall never see him
again!"

The others were too much startled and alarmed at the moment to notice
her wild words or make any reply. They all rose and hurried into the
house, and Mr. Dinsmore began closing windows and doors.

"The children, papa!" cried Elsie; "they must be down on the beach,
and--"

"The captain is with them, and I will go to their assistance," he
replied, before she could finish her sentence.

He rushed out as he spoke, to return the next moment with Walter in his
arms and the rest closely following.

"These are all safe, and for the others I must trust the Lord," Elsie
said softly to herself as her father set Walter down, and she drew the
child to her side.

But her cheek was very pale, and her lips trembled as she pressed them
to the little fellow's forehead.

He looked up wonderingly. "Mamma, what is the matter? You're not afraid
of wind and thunder?"

"No, dear; but I fear for your brothers out on this stormy sea," she
whispered in his ear. "Pray for them, darling, that if God will, they
may reach home in safety."

"Yes, mamma, I will; and I believe He'll bring them. Is it 'cause Ned's
in the ship Zoe's crying so?"

"Yes; I must try to comfort her." And putting him gently aside, Elsie
went to her young daughter-in-law, who had thrown herself upon a couch,
and with her head pillowed on its arm, her face hidden in her hands, was
weeping and sobbing as if her heart would break.

"Zoe, love," Elsie said, kneeling at her side and putting her arms about
her, "do not despair. 'Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that it
cannot save; neither His ear heavy that it cannot hear.'"

"No, but--He does let people drown; and oh, I can never live without my
husband!"

"Dear child, there is no need to consider that question till it is
forced upon you. Try, dear one, to let that alone, and rest in the
promise, 'As thy days, so shall thy strength be.'"

The captain had drawn near, and was standing close beside them.

"Mother has given you the best of advice, my little sister," he said, in
his kind, cheery way; "and for your further comfort let me say that it
is altogether likely the Edna is safe in harbor somewhere. I think they
probably perceived the approach of the storm in season to be warned not
to put out to sea till it should be over."

"Do you really think so, captain?" she asked, lifting her head to wipe
away her tears.

He assured her that he did; and thinking him a competent judge of what
seamen would be likely to do in such an emergency, she grew calm for a
time, though her face was still sad; and till darkness shut out the
sight, she cast many an anxious glance from the window upon the raging
waters.

"If not in harbor, they must be in great peril?" Mr. Dinsmore remarked,
aside, and half inquiringly, to the captain.

"Yes, sir; yes, indeed. I am far more anxious than I should like to own
to their mother, Zoe, or Violet."

It was near their tea hour when the storm burst; they gathered about the
table as usual, but there was little eating done except by the children,
and the meal was not enlivened, as was customary with them, by cheerful,
sprightly chat, though efforts in that direction were not wanting on the
part of several of their number.

The storm raged on with unabated fury, and Zoe, as she listened to the
howling of the wind and the deafening thunder peals, grew wild with
terror for her husband. She could not be persuaded to go to bed, even
when her accustomed hour for retiring was long past, but would sit in
her chair, moaning, "O Ned! Ned! my husband, my dear, dear husband! Oh,
if I could only do anything to help you! My darling, my darling! you are
all I have, and I can't live without you!" then spring up and pace the
floor, sobbing, wringing her hands, and sometimes, as a fierce blast
shook the cottage or a more deafening thunder peal crashed over-head,
even shrieking out in terror and distress.

In vain Elsie tried to soothe and quiet her with reassuring, comforting
words or caresses and endearments.

"Oh, I can't bear it!" she cried again and again. "Ned is all I have,
and it will kill me to lose him. Nobody can know how I suffer at the
very thought."

"My dear," Elsie said, with a voice trembling with emotion, "you forget
that Edward is my dearly loved son, and that I have two others, who are
no less dear to their mother's heart, on board that vessel."

"Forgive me, mamma," Zoe sobbed, taking Elsie's hand and dropping tears
and kisses upon it. "I did forget, and it was very shameful, for you are
so kind and loving to me, putting aside your own grief and anxiety to
help me in bearing mine. But how is it yon can be so calm?"

"Because, dear, I am enabled to stay my heart on God, my Almighty
Friend, my kind, wise, Heavenly Father. Listen, love, to these sweet
words: 'O Lord God of hosts, who is a strong Lord like unto Thee? or to
thy faithfulness round about Thee? Thou rulest the roaring of the sea:
when the waves thereof arise, Thou stillest them.'"

"They are beautiful," said Betty, who sat near, in a despondent
attitude, her elbow on her knee, her cheek in her hand. "Oh, Cousin
Elsie, I would give all the world for your faith, and to be able to find
the comfort and support in Bible promises and teachings that you do!"

The outer door opened, and Mr. Dinsmore and Captain Raymond came in,
their waterproof coats dripping with rain.

They had been out on the edge of the cliff taking an observation, though
it was little they could see through the darkness; but occasionally the
lightning's lurid flash lit up the scene for a moment, and afforded a
glimpse of the storm-tossed deep.

"Be comforted, ladies," the captain said; "there are at least no signs
of any vessel in distress; if any such were near, she would undoubtedly
be firing signal-guns. So I think we may hope my conjecture that our
boys are safe in harbor somewhere, is correct."

"And the storm is passing over," said Mr. Dinsmore; "the thunder and
lightning have almost ceased."

"But the wind has not fallen, and that is what makes the great danger,
grandpa, isn't it?" asked Zoe. "Oh, hark, what was that? I heard a step
and voice!" And rushing to the outer door as she spoke, she threw it
open, and found herself in her husband's arms.

"O Ned, Ned!" she cried, in a transport of joy, "is it really you? Oh, I
thought I should never see you again, you dear, dear, _dear_ boy!"

She clung round his neck, and he held her close, with many a caress and
endearing word, drawing her a little to one side to let his brothers
step past them and embrace the tender mother, who wept for joy as she
received them, almost as if restored to her from the very gates of
death.

"There, love, I must let you go while I take off this dripping coat,"
Edward said, at length, releasing Zoe. "How wet I have made you! I fear
your pretty dress is quite spoiled," he added, with a tender, regretful
smile.

"That's nothing," she answered, with a gay laugh; "you'll only have to
buy me another, and you've plenty of money."

"Plenty to supply all the wants of my little wife, I hope."

"Ah, mother dear," as he threw aside his wet overcoat and took her in
his arms, "were you alarmed for the safety of your three sons?"

"Yes, indeed I was," she said, returning his kisses; "and I feel that I
have great cause for thankfulness in that you are all brought back to me
unharmed. 'Oh, that men would praise the Lord for His goodness and for
His wonderful works to the children of men!'"

Betty had started up on the entrance of her cousins, glancing eagerly
from one dripping figure to another, then staggered back and leaned,
pale and trembling, against the wall. In the excitement no one had
noticed her, but now she exclaimed, in tremulous accents, and catching
her breath, "Bob--my brother; where is he?"

"O Betty," Harold answered, turning hastily at the sound of her voice,
"forgive our thoughtlessness in not explaining that at once! Bob went to
a hotel; he said we could bring the news of his safety and our own, and
it wasn't worth while for him to travel all the way up here through the
storm."

"No, of course not; I wouldn't have had him do so," she returned, with a
sigh of relief, her face resuming its wonted gayety of expression; "but
I'm mighty glad he's safe on terra firma."

"But your story, boys; let us have it," said Mr. Dinsmore.

"Yes, we _have_ a story, grandpa," said Edward, with emphasis and
excitement; "but Harold should tell it; he could do it better than I."

"No, no," Harold said; "you are as good a story-teller as I."

"There!" laughed Herbert. "I believe I'll have to do it myself, or with
your extreme politeness to each other you'll keep the audience waiting
all night.

"The storm came suddenly upon us when we were about half way home, or
maybe something more; and it presently became evident that we were in
imminent danger of wreck. The captain soon concluded that our only
chance was in letting the Edna drive right before the wind, which would
take us in exactly the direction we wished to pursue, but with rather
startling celerity; and that was what he did.

"She flew over the water like a wild winged bird, and into the harbor
with immense velocity. Safely enough, though, till we were there, almost
at the wharf, when we struck against another vessel anchored near, and
actually cut her in two, spilling the crew into the water."

"Don't look so horrified, mother dear," said Harold, as Herbert paused
for breath; "no one was drowned, no one even hurt."

"Barring the wetting and the fright, as the Irish say," added Edward.

"But the latter was a real hurt," said Harold; "for the cry they sent up
as they made the sudden, involuntary plunge from their berths, where
they were probably asleep at the moment of collision, into the cold,
deep water of the harbor, was something terrible to hear."

"Enough to curdle one's blood," added Herbert.

"And you are quite sure all were picked up?" asked Elsie, her sweet face
full of pity for the unfortunate sufferers.

"Yes, mother, quite sure," answered Edward; "the captain of the craft
said, in my hearing, that no one was missing."

"And the captain of the other will probably have pretty heavy damages to
pay," remarked Mr. Dinsmore.

"I presume so," said Edward; "but even that would be far better than
the loss of his vessel, with all the lives of those on board."

"Money could not pay for those last," Elsie said, low and tremulously,
as she looked at her three tall sons through a mist of unshed tears;
"and I will gladly help the Edna's captain to meet the damages incurred
in his efforts to save them."

"Just like you, mother," Edward said, giving her a look of proud, fond
affection.

"I entirely approve, and shall be ready to contribute my share," said
her father. "But it is very late, or rather early--long past
midnight--and we should be getting to bed. But let us first unite in a
prayer of thanksgiving to our God for all His mercies, especially
this--that our dear boys are restored to us unharmed."

They knelt, and led by him, all hearts united in a fervent outpouring of
gratitude and praise to the Giver of all good.




CHAPTER XIII.

"Hitherto hath the Lord helped us."


It was a lovely Sabbath afternoon, still and bright; Elsie sat alone on
the veranda, enjoying the beauty of the sea and the delicious breeze
coming from it. She had been reading, and the book lay in her lap, one
hand resting upon the open page; but she was deep in meditation, her
eyes following the restless movements of the waves that, with the rising
tide, dashed higher and higher upon the beach below.

For the last half hour she had been the solitary tenant of the veranda,
while the others enjoyed their siesta or a lounge upon the beach.

Presently a noiseless step drew near her chair, some one bent down over
her and softly kissed her cheek.

"Papa" she said, looking up into his face with smiling eyes, "you have
come to sit with me? Let me give you this chair," and she would have
risen to do so, but he laid his hand on her shoulder, saying, "No; sit
still; I will take this," drawing up another and seating himself therein
close at her side.

"Do you know that I have been watching you from the doorway there for
the last five minutes?" he asked.

"No, sir; I deemed myself quite alone," she said. "Why did you not let
me know that my dear father, whose society I prize so highly, was so
near?"

"Because you seemed so deep in thought, and evidently such happy
thought, that I was loath to disturb it."

"Yes," she said, "they were happy thoughts. I have seemed to myself, for
the last few days, to be in the very land of Beulah, so delightful has
been the sure hope--I may say certainty--that Jesus is mine and I am
His; that I am His servant forever, for time and for eternity, as truly
and entirely His as words can express. Is it not a sweet thought, papa?
is it not untold bliss to know that we may--that we shall serve Him
forever? that nothing can ever separate us from the love of Christ?"

"It is, indeed--Christ who is our life. He says, 'Because I live, ye
shall live also;' thus He is our life. Is He not our life also because
He is the dearest of all friends to us--His own people?"

"Yes; and how the thought of His love, His perfect sympathy, His
infinite power to help and to save, gives strength and courage to face
the unknown future. 'The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall
I fear? the Lord is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?'
'Surely, goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life.'

"In view of the many dangers that lie around our every path, the many
terrible trials that may be sent to any one of us, I often wonder how
those who do not trust in this almighty Friend can have the least real,
true happiness. Were it my case, I should be devoured with anxiety and
fears for myself and my dear ones."

"But as it is," her father said, gazing tenderly upon her, "you are able
to leave the future, for them and for yourself, in His kind, wise,
all-powerful hands, knowing that nothing can befall you without His
will, and that He will send no trial that shall not be for your good,
and none that He will not give you strength to endure?"

"Yes, that is it, papa; and oh, what rest it is! One feels so safe and
happy; so free from fear and care; like a little child whose loving
earthly father is holding it by the hand or in his strong, kind arms."

"And you have loved and trusted Him since you were a very little child,"
he remarked, half musingly.

"Yes, papa; I cannot remember when I did not; and could there be a
greater cause for gratitude?"

"No; such love and trust are worth more to the happy possessor than the
wealth of the universe. But there was a time when, though my little girl
had it, I was altogether ignorant of it, and marvelled greatly at her
love for God's word and her joy and peace in believing. I shall never
cease to bless God for giving me such a child."

"Nor I to thank Him for my dear father," she responded, putting her hand
into his, with the very same loving, confiding gesture she had been wont
to use in childhood's days.

His fingers closed over it, and he held it fast in a warm, loving grasp,
while they continued their talk concerning the things that lay nearest
their hearts--the love of the Master, His infinite perfection, the
interests of His kingdom, the many great and precious promises of His
word--thus renewing their strength and provoking one another to love and
to good works.

"Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another; and the Lord
hearkened, and heard it; and a book of remembrance was written before
Him for them that feared the Lord, and that thought upon His name.

"And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I
make up my jewels; and I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son
that serveth him."

Ere another week had rolled its round, events had occurred which tested
the sustaining power of their faith in God, and the joy of the Lord
proved to be indeed their strength, keeping their hearts from failing in
an hour of sore anxiety and distress.

The evening was bright with the radiance of a full moon and unusually
warm for the season; so pleasant was it out of doors that most of our
friends preferred the veranda to the cottage parlors, and some of the
younger ones were strolling about the town or the beach.

Betty had gone down to the latter place, taking Lulu with her, with the
captain's permission, both promising not to go out of sight of home.

"Oh, how lovely the sea is to-night, with the moon shining so brightly
on all the little dancing waves!" exclaimed Lulu, as they stood side by
side close to the water's edge.

"Yes," said Betty; "doesn't it make you feel like going in?"

"Do people ever bathe at night?" asked Lulu.

"I don't know why they shouldn't," returned her companion.

"It might be dangerous, perhaps," suggested Lulu.

"Why should it?" said Betty; "it's almost as light as day. Oh, Bob,"
perceiving her brother close at hand, "don't you want to go in? I will
if you will go with me."

"I don't care if I do," he answered, after a moment's reflection: "a
moonlight bath in the sea would be something out of the common; and
there seems to be just surf enough to make it enjoyable."

"Yes; and my bathing-suit is in the bath-house yonder. I can be ready in
five minutes."

"Can you? So can I; we'll go in if only for a few minutes. Won't you go
with us, Lulu?"

"I'd like to," she said, "but I can't without leave; and I know papa
wouldn't give it, for I had a bath this morning, and he says one a day
is quite enough."

"I was in this morning," said Bob; "Betty, too, I think, and--I say,
Bet, it strikes me I've heard that it's a little risky to go in at
night."

"Not such a night as this, I'm sure, Bob; why, it's as light as day; and
if there is danger it can be only about enough to give spice to the
undertaking."

With the last word she started for the bath-house, and Bob, not to be
outdone in courage, hurried toward another appropriated to his use.

Lulu stood waiting for their return, not at all afraid to be left alone
with not another creature in sight on the beach. Yet the solitude
disturbed her as the thought arose that Bob and Betty might be about to
put themselves in danger, while no help was at hand for their rescue.
The nearest she knew of was at the cottages on the bluff, and for her to
climb those long flights of stairs and give the alarm in case anything
went wrong with the venturesome bathers, would be a work of time.

"I'd better not wait for them to get into danger, for they would surely
drown before help could reach them," she said to herself, after a
moment's thought. "I'll only wait till I see them really in, and then
hurry home to see if somebody can't come down and be ready to help if
they should begin to drown."

But as they passed her, presently, on their way to the water, Bob said:
"We're trusting you to keep our secret, Lulu; don't tell tales on us."

She made no reply, but thought within herself, "That shows he doesn't
think he's doing exactly right. I'm afraid it must be quite dangerous."

But while his remark and injunction increased her apprehensions for
them, it also made her hesitate to carry to their friends the news of
their escapade till she should see that it brought them into actual
danger and need of assistance.

She watched them tremblingly as they waded slowly out beyond the surf
into the smooth, swelling waves, where they began to swim.

For a few moments all seemed to be well; then came a sudden shrill cry
from Betty, followed by a hoarser one from Bob, which could mean nothing
else than fright and danger.

For an instant Lulu was nearly paralyzed with terror; but rousing
herself by a determined effort, she shouted at the top of her voice,
"Don't give up; I'll go for help as fast as ever I can," and instantly
set off for home at her utmost speed.

"Help, help! they'll drown, oh, they'll drown!" she screamed as she ran.

Harold, who was in the act of descending the last flight of stairs, saw
her running toward him, and heard her cry, though the noise of the surf
prevented his catching all the words.

"What's the matter?" he shouted, clearing the remainder of the flight at
a bound.

"Betty, Bob--drowning!" she cried, without slackening her speed, "I'm
going for help."

He waited, to hear no more, but sped on toward the water; and only
pausing to divest himself of his outer clothing, plunged in, and,
buffeting with the waves, made his way as rapidly as possible toward the
struggling forms, which, by the light of the moon, he could dimly
discern at some distance from the shore.

Faint cries for help and the gleam of Betty's white arm, as for an
instant she raised it above the wave, guided him to the spot.

Harold was an excellent swimmer, strong and courageous; but he had
undertaken a task beyond his strength, and his young life was very near
falling a sacrifice to the folly of his cousins and his own generous
impulse to fly to their aid.

Both Bob and Betty were already so nearly exhausted as to be scarcely
capable of doing anything to help themselves, and in their mad struggle
for life caught hold of him and so impeded his movements that he was
like to perish with them.

Mean while Lulu had reached the top of the cliff, then the veranda where
the older members of the family party were seated, and, all out of
breath with fright and the exertion of climbing and running, she
faltered out, "Bob and Betty; they'll drown if they don't get help
quickly."

"What, are they in the water?" cried Mr. Dinsmore and Captain Raymond,
simultaneously springing to their feet; the latter adding, "I fear
they'll drown before we can possibly get help to them."

"Oh, yes; they're drowning now," sobbed Lulu; "but Harold's gone to help
them."

"Harold? He's lost if he tries it alone!" "The boy's mad to think of
such a thing!" exclaimed Mr. Dinsmore and Edward in a breath, while
Elsie's cheek turned deathly pale, and her heart went up in an agonized
cry that her boy's life might be spared; the others also.

The gentlemen held a hasty consultation, then scattered, Mr. Dinsmore
hastening in search of other aid, while Captain Raymond and Edward
hurried to the beach, the ladies following with entreaties to them to be
careful.

But fortunately for the endangered ones, other aid had already reached
them--a boat that had come out from Nantucket for a moonlight sail, and
from the shore a noble Newfoundland dog belonging to a retired sea
captain. Strolling along the beach with his master, he heard the cries
for help, saw the struggling forms, and instantly plunging in among the
waves, swam to the rescue.

Seizing Betty by the hair, he held her head above water till the
sailboat drew near and strong arms caught hold of her and dragged her
in, pale, dripping, and seemingly lifeless.

They then picked up the young men, both entirely unconscious, and made
for the shore with all possible haste.

It was doubtful if the last spark of life had not been extinguished in
every one of the three; but the most prompt, wise, and vigorous measures
were instantly taken and continued for hours--hours of agonizing
suspense to those who loved them.

At length Bob gave unmistakable signs of life; and shortly after Betty
sighed, opened her eyes, and asked, feebly, "Where am I? what has
happened?"

But Harold still lay as one dead, and would have been given up as such
had not his mother clung to hope, and insisted that the efforts at
restoration should be continued.

Through the whole trying scene she had maintained an unbroken calmness
of demeanor, staying herself upon her God, lifting her heart to His
throne in never-ceasing petitions, and in the midst of her bitter grief
and anxiety rejoicing that if her boy were taken from her for a time, it
would be but to exchange the trials and cares of earth for the joys of
heaven; and the parting from him here would soon be followed by a
blissful reunion in that blessed land where sin and sorrow and suffering
can never enter.

But at length, when their efforts were rewarded so that he breathed and
spoke, and she knew that he was restored to her, the reaction came.

She had given him a gentle, tender kiss, had seen him fall into a
natural, refreshing sleep, and passing from his bedside into an
adjoining room, she fainted in her father's arms.

"My darling, my dear, brave darling!" he murmured, as he laid her down
upon a couch and bent over her in tenderest solicitude, while Mrs.
Dinsmore hastened to apply restoratives.

It was not a long faint; she presently opened her eyes and lifted them
with a bewildered look up into her father's face.

"What is it, papa?" she murmured; "have I been ill?"

"Only a short faint," he answered. "But you must be quite worn out."

"Oh, I remember!" she cried. "Harold, my dear son--"

"Is doing well, love. And now I want you to go to your bed and try to
get some rest. See, day is breaking, and you have had no sleep, no
rest."

"Nor have you, papa; do go and lie down; but I must watch over my poor
boy," she said, trying to rise from the couch.

"Lie still," he said, gently detaining her; "lie here, if you are not
willing to go to your bed. I am better able to sit up than you are, and
will see to Harold."

"His brothers are with him, mamma," said Zoe, standing by; "and Edward
says they will stay beside him as long as they are needed."

"Then you and I will both retire and try to take some rest, shall we
not?" Mr. Dinsmore asked, bending over Elsie and softly smoothing her
hair.

"Yes, papa; but I must first take one peep at the dear son so nearly
lost to me."

He helped her to rise; then she perceived that Captain Raymond and
Violet were in the room.

"Dearest mamma," said the latter, coming forward to embrace her, "how
glad I am that you are better, and our dear Harold spared to us!" She
broke down in sobs and tears.

"Yes, my child; oh, let us thank the Lord for His great goodness! But
this night has been quite too much for you. Do you go at once and try to
get some rest."

"I shall see that she obeys, mother," the captain said, in a tenderly
sportive tone, taking Elsie's hand and lifting it to his lips.

"I think I may trust you," she returned, with a faint smile. "You were
with Bob; how is he now?"

"Doing as well as possible under the circumstances; as is Betty also;
you need trouble your kind heart with no fear or care for them."

It had been a terrible night to all the family--the children the only
ones who had taken any rest or sleep--and days of nursing followed
before the three who had so narrowly escaped death were restored to
their wonted health and strength.

Mr. and Mrs. Dinsmore and Elsie devoted themselves to that work, and
were often assisted in it by Zoe, Edward, and Herbert.

Harold was quite a hero with these last and with Max and Lulu; in fact,
with all who knew or heard of his brave deed, though he modestly
disclaimed any right to the praises heaped upon him, asserting that he
had done no more than any one with common courage and humanity would
have done in his place.

Bob and Betty were heartily ashamed of their escapade, and much sobered
at the thought of their narrow escape from sudden death. Both dreaded
the severe reproof they had reason to expect from their uncle, but he
was very forbearing, and thinking the fright and suffering entailed by
their folly sufficient to deter them from a repetition of it, kindly
refrained from lecturing them on the subject, though, when a suitable
opportunity offered, he did talk seriously and tenderly, with now one
and now the other, on the guilt and danger of putting off repentance
toward God, and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ, reminding them that
they had had a very solemn warning of the shortness and uncertainty of
life, and asking them to consider the question whether they were ready
for a sudden call into the immediate presence of their Judge.

"Really now, uncle," remarked Bob on one of these occasions, "there are
worse fellows in the world than I am--much worse."

"I am willing to admit that, my boy," returned Mr. Dinsmore; "but many
of those fellows have not enjoyed the privileges and teachings that you
have, and responsibility is largely in proportion to one's light and
opportunities.

"Jesus said, 'That servant, who knew his Lord's will, and prepared not
himself, neither did according to His will, shall be beaten with many
stripes. But he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes,
shall be beaten with few stripes.'"

"Yes; and you think I'm one of the first class, I suppose?"

"I do, my boy; for you have been well instructed, both in the church and
in the family; also you have a Bible, and may study it for yourself as
often and carefully as you will."

"But I really have never done anything very bad, uncle."

"How can you say that, Robert, when you know that you have lived all
your life in utter neglect of God's appointed way of salvation? hearing
the gracious invitation of Him who died that you might live, 'Come unto
me,' and refusing to accept it?

"'God so loved the world that He gave His only-begotten Son, that
whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting
life,' and having for years refused to believe, how can you assert that
you have done nothing very bad? 'How shall we escape, if we neglect so
great salvation?'"

Bob made no reply, but looked thoughtful, and his uncle went quietly
from the room, thinking it well to leave the lad to his own reflections.

Passing the door of the room where Harold lay, he was about to enter,
but perceiving that the boy and his mother were in earnest conversation,
he moved on, leaving them undisturbed.

"Mamma," Harold was saying, "I have been thinking much of sudden death
since my very narrow escape from it. You know, mamma, it comes sometimes
without a moment's warning; and as we all sin continually in thought and
feeling, if not in word and deed, as our very best deeds and services
are so stained with sin that they need to be repented of and forgiven,
how is it that even a true Christian can get to heaven if called away so
suddenly?"

"Because when one comes to Jesus Christ and accepts His offered
salvation, _all_ his sins, future as well as past and present, are
forgiven. 'The blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanseth us from all
sin.'

"Jesus said, 'He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life.' 'I
give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish, neither shall
any man pluck them out of my hand.'"

"But oh, mamma, I find myself so weak and sinful, so ready to yield to
temptation, that I sometimes fear I shall never be able to hold out to
the end!"

"My dear boy, let that fear lead you to cling all the closer to the
Master, who is able to save unto the uttermost. If our holding out
depended upon ourselves, our own weak wills, we might well be in
despair; but 'He will keep the feet of His saints.'

"'Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who, according
to His abundant mercy, hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the
resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance
incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in
heaven for you, who are kept by the power of God through faith unto
salvation.' Can they be in danger who are _kept by the power of God_?"




CHAPTER XIV.

"My Father's house on high,
  Home of my soul, how near
At times to Faith's discerning eye
  Thy pearly gates appear."


Harold and his cousins had scarcely more than fully recovered from the
effects of their almost drowning when Captain Raymond again received
orders to join his ship, and it was decided that the time had come for
all to leave the island.

Bob and Betty received letters from their brother and sister in
Louisiana, giving them a cordial invitation to their homes, Dick
proposing that Bob should study medicine with him, with a view to
becoming his partner, and Molly giving Betty a cordial invitation from
herself and husband to take up her residence at Magnolia Hall.

With the approval of their uncle and other relatives, these kind offers
were promptly accepted.

Letters came about the same time from Lansdale, Ohio, inviting the
Dinsmores, Travillas, and Raymonds to attend the celebration of Miss
Stanhope's one hundredth birthday, which was now near at hand.

Mr. Harry Duncan wrote for her, saying that she had a great longing to
see her nephews and nieces once more, and to make the acquaintance of
Violet's husband and his children.

The captain could not go, but it was decided that all the others should.
The necessary arrangements were quickly made, and the whole party left
the island together, not without some regret and a resolution to return
at some future day to enjoy its refreshing breezes and other delights
during the hot season.

On reaching New York they parted with the captain, whose vessel lay in
that harbor.

Bob and Betty left them farther on in the journey, and the remainder of
the little company travelled on to Lansdale, arriving the day before the
important occasion which called them there.

Mrs. Dinsmore's brother, Richard Allison, who, my readers may remember,
had married Elsie's old friend, Lottie King, shortly after the close of
the war of the rebellion, had taken up his abode in Lansdale years ago.

Both he and his sister May's husband, Harry Duncan, had prospered
greatly. Each had a large, handsome dwelling adjacent to Miss Stanhope's
cottage, in which she still kept house, having never yet seen the time
when she could bring herself to give up the comfort of living in a home
of her own.

She had attached and capable servants, and amid her multitude of nieces
and grand-nieces, there was almost always one or more who was
willing--nay, glad, to relieve her of the care and labor of
housekeeping, taking pleasure in making life's pathway smooth and easy
to the aged feet, and her last days bright and happy.

She still had possession of all her faculties, was very active for one
of her age, and felt unabated interest in the welfare of kindred and
friends. She had by no means outlived her usefulness or grown querulous
with age, but was ever the same bright, cheerful, happy Christian that
she had been in earlier years.

The birthday party was to be held under her own roof, and a numerous
company of near and dear relatives were gathering there and at the
houses of the Duncans and Allisons.

Richard and Lottie, Harry and May were at the depot to meet the train on
which our travellers arrived.

It was an altogether joyous meeting, after years of separation.

The whole party repaired at once to Miss Stanhope's cottage, to greet
and chat a little with her and others who had come before to the
gathering; prominently among them Mr. and Mrs. Keith from Pleasant
Plains, Indiana, with their daughters, Mrs. Landreth, Mrs. Ormsby, and
Annis, who was still unmarried.

Very glad indeed were Mrs. Keith and Mr. Dinsmore, Rose and Mildred,
Elsie and Annis to meet and renew the old intimacies of former days.

Time had wrought many changes since we first saw them together, more
than thirty years ago. Mr. and Mrs. Keith were now old and infirm, yet
bright and cheery, looking hopefully forward to that better country,
that Celestial City, toward which they were fast hastening, and with no
unwilling steps. Dr. and Mrs. Landreth and Mr. and Mrs. Dinsmore had
changed from youthful married couples into elderly people, while Elsie
and Annis had left childhood far behind, and were now--the one a cheery,
happy maiden lady, whom aged parents leaned upon as their stay and
staff, brothers and sisters dearly loved, and nieces and nephews doated
upon; the other a mother whom her children blessed for her faithful love
and care, and delighted to honor.

This renewal of intercourse, and the reminiscences of early days which
it called up, were very delightful to both.

The gathering of relatives and friends of course formed far too large a
company for all to lodge in one house, but the three--Aunt Wealthy's and
those of the Duncans and Allisons--accommodated them comfortably for
the few days of their stay, or rather the nights, for during the day
they were very apt to assemble in the parlors and porches of the
cottage.

It was there Elsie and her younger children and Violet and hers took up
their quarters, by invitation, for the time of the visit.

"But where is the captain, your husband?" inquired Aunt Wealthy of
Violet on giving her a welcoming embrace. "I wanted particularly to see
him, and he should not have neglected the invitation of a woman a
hundred years old."

"Dear auntie, I assure you he did so only by compulsion; he would have
come gladly if Uncle Sam had not ordered him off in another direction,"
Violet answered, with pretty playfulness of look and tone.

"Ah, then, we must excuse him. But you brought the children, I hope. I
want to see them."

"Yes; this is his son," Violet said, motioning Max to approach; "and
here are the little girls," drawing Lulu and Grace forward.

The old lady shook hands with and kissed them, saying, "It will be
something for you to remember, dears, that you have seen a woman who has
lived a hundred years in this world, and can testify that goodness and
mercy have followed her all the days of her life. Trust in the Lord, my
children, and you, even if you should live as long as I have, will be
able to bear the same testimony that He is faithful to His promises.

"I say the same to you, too, Rosie and Walter, my Elsie's children," she
added, turning to them with a tenderly affectionate look and smile.

They gazed upon her with awe for a moment; then Rosie said, "You don't
look so very old, Aunt Wealthy; not older than some ladies of eighty
that I've seen."

"Perhaps not older than I did when I was only eighty, my dear; but I am
glad to know that I am a good deal nearer home now than I was then,"
Miss Stanhope responded, her face growing bright with joyous
anticipation.

"Are you really glad to know you must die before very long?" asked Max,
in wonder and surprise.

"Wouldn't it be strange if I were not?" she asked; "heaven is my home.

"'There my best friends, my kindred dwell,
There God my Saviour reigns.'

"I live in daily, hourly longing expectation of the call."

"And yet you are not weary of life? you are happy here, are you not,
dear Aunt Wealthy?" asked Mrs. Keith.

"Yes, Marcia; I am happy among my kind relatives and friends; and
entirely willing to stay till the Master sees fit to call me home, for I
know that His will is always best. Oh, the sweet peace and joy of
trusting in Him and leaving all to His care and direction! Who that has
experienced it could ever again want to choose for him or herself?"

"And you have been long in His service, Aunt Wealthy?" Mr. Dinsmore
said, half in assertion, half inquiringly.

"Since I was ten years old, Horace; and that is ninety years; and let me
bear testimony now, before you all, that I have ever found Him faithful
to His promises, and His service growing constantly sweeter and sweeter.
And so it shall be to all eternity. 'My soul doth magnify the Lord, and
my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour.'"

Then turning to Mrs. Keith, "How is it with you, Marcia?" she asked;
"you have attained to your four-score years, and have been in the
service since early childhood. What have you to say for your Master
now?"

"Just what you have said, dear aunt; never have I had cause to repent of
choosing His service; it has been a blessed service to me, full of joy
and consolation--joy that even abounds more and more as I draw nearer
and nearer to my journey's end.

"I know it is the same with my husband," she added, giving him a look
of wifely affection; "and I doubt not with my cousins--Horace, Rose,
Elsie--with all here present who have had experience as soldiers and
servants of Jesus Christ."

"In that you are entirely right, Marcia," responded Mr. Dinsmore; "I can
speak for myself, my wife, and daughter."

Both ladies gave an unqualified confirmation of his words, while their
happy countenances testified to the truth of the assertion.

"And, Milly dear, you and your husband, your brothers and sisters, can
all say the same," remarked Miss Stanhope, laying her withered hand
affectionately upon Mrs. Landreth's arm as she sat in a low seat by her
side.

"We can indeed," Mildred said, with feeling. "What blessed people we
are! all knowing and loving the dear Master, and looking forward to an
eternity of bliss together at His right hand."

The interview between the aged saint and her long-absent relatives was
continued for a few moments more; then she dismissed them, with the
remark that doubtless they would all like to retire to their rooms for a
little, and she must take a short rest in order to be fresh for the
evening, when she hoped they would all gather about her again.

"I want you all to feel at home and to enjoy yourselves as much as you
can," she said, in conclusion. "Play about the grounds, children,
whenever you like."

Her cottage stood between the houses of the Duncans and Allisons; the
grounds of all three were extensive, highly cultivated, and adorned with
beautiful trees, shrubbery, and flowers, and there were no separating
fences or hedges, so that they seemed to form one large park or garden.

Rosie and Walter Travilla, and the young Raymonds were delighted with
the permission to roam at will about these lovely grounds, and hastened
to avail themselves of it as soon as the removal of the dust of travel
and a change of attire rendered them fit.

They found a Dutch gardener busied here and there, and presently opened
a conversation with him, quite winning his heart by unstinted praises of
the beauty of his plants and flowers.

"It must be a great deal of work to keep those large gardens in such
perfect order," remarked Rose.

"Dat it ish, miss," he said; "but I vorks pretty hard mineself, and my
son Shakey, he gifs me von leetle lift ven he ton't pees too much in
school."

"Do you live here?" asked little Grace.

"Here in dis garten? no, miss; I lifs oud boud t'ree mile in de
country."

"That's a long walk for you, isn't it?" said Lulu.

"Nein; I don't valks, miss; ven I ish god dings to pring--abbles or
botatoes or some dings else--I say to mine Shakey, 'Just hitch de
harness on de horse and hang him to de stable door;' or if I got nodings
to pring I tells de poy, 'Hitch him up a horseback;' den I comes in to
mine vork and I tash! I don't hafs to valk--nod a shtep."

"How funny he talks," whispered Grace to Lulu; "I can hardly understand
him."

"It's because he's Dutch," returned Lulu, in the same low tone. "But I
can tell almost all he says. His son's name must be Jakey; the short for
Jacob."

"What is your name?" asked Max.

"Hencle--Shon Hencle. I dinks you all pees come to see Miss Stanhope pe
von huntred years olt; ishn't you?"

"Yes," said Rosie. "It seems very wonderful to think that she has lived
so long."

The children, weary with their journey, were sent to bed early that
night. Lulu and Grace found they were to sleep together in a small room
opening into a larger one, where two beds had been placed for the time
to meet the unusual demand for sleeping quarters. These were to be
occupied by Grandma Elsie, Violet, Rosie, and Walter.

Timid little Grace heard, with great satisfaction, that all these were
to be so near; and Lulu, though not at all cowardly, was well pleased
with the arrangement. Yet she little thought how severely her courage
was to be tested that night.

She and Grace had scarcely laid their heads upon their pillows ere they
fell into profound slumber. Lulu did not know how long she had slept,
but all was darkness and silence within and without the house, when
something, she could not have told what, suddenly roused her completely.

She lay still, trying to recall the events of the past day and remember
where she was; and just as she succeeded in doing so a strange sound, as
of restless movements and the clanking of chains, came from beneath the
bed.

Her heart seemed to stand still with fear; she had never before, in all
her short life, felt so terrified and helpless.

"What can it be?" she asked herself. "An escaped criminal--a
murderer--or a maniac from an insane asylum, I suppose; for who else
would wear a clanking chain? and what can he want here but to kill
Gracie and me? I suppose he got in the house before they shut the doors
for the night, and hid under the bed till everybody should be fast
asleep, meaning to begin then to murder and rob. Oh, I do wish I'd
looked under the bed while all the gentlemen were about to catch him and
keep him from hurting us! But now what shall I do? If I try to get out
of the bed, he'll catch hold of my foot and kill me before anybody can
come; and if I scream for help, he'll do the same. The best plan is to
lie as quiet as I can, so he'll think I'm still asleep; for maybe he
only means to rob, and not murder, if nobody wakes up to see what he's
about and tell of him. Oh, I do hope Gracie won't wake! for she could
never help screaming; and then he'd jump out and kill us both."

So with heroic courage she lay there, perfectly quiet and hardly moving
a muscle for what seemed to her an age of suffering, every moment
expecting the creature under the bed to spring out upon her, and in
constant fear that Grace would awake and precipitate the calamity by a
scream of affright.

All was quiet again for some time, she lying there, straining her ears
for a repetition of the dreaded sounds; then, as they came again louder
than before, she had great difficulty in restraining herself from
springing from the bed and shrieking aloud, in a paroxysm of panic
terror.

But she did control herself, lay perfectly still, and allowed not the
slightest sound to escape her lips.

That last clanking noise had awakened Elsie, and she too now lay wide
awake, silent and still, while intently listening for a repetition of
it. She hardly knew whence the sound had come, or what it was; but when
repeated, as it was in a moment or two, she was satisfied that it issued
from the room where Lulu and Grace were, and her conjectures in regard
to its origin coincided with Lulu's.

She, too, was greatly alarmed, but did not lose her presence of mind.
Hoping the little girls were still asleep, and judging from the silence
that they were, she lay for a few minutes without moving, indeed
scarcely breathing, while she tried to decide upon the wisest course to
pursue, asking guidance and help from on high, as she always did in
every emergency.

Her resolution was quickly taken; slipping softly out of bed, she stole
noiselessly from the room and into another, on the opposite side of the
hall, occupied by Edward and Zoe.

"Edward," she said, speaking in a whisper close to his ear, "wake, my
son; I am in need of help."

"What is it, mother?" he asked, starting up.

"Softly," she whispered; "make no noise, but come with me. Somebody or
something is in the room where Lulu and Gracie sleep. I distinctly heard
the clanking of a chain."

"Mother!" he cried, but hardly above his breath, "an escaped lunatic,
probably! Stay here and let me encounter him alone. I have loaded
pistols--"

"Oh, don't use them if you can help it!" she cried.

"I shall not," he assured her, "unless it is absolutely necessary."

He snatched the weapons from beneath his pillow as he spoke, and went
from the room, she closely following.

At the instant that they entered hers a low growl came from the inner
room, and simultaneously they exclaimed, "A dog!"

"Somewhat less to be feared than a lunatic, unless he should be mad,
which is not likely," added Edward, striking a light.

Lulu sprang up with a low cry of intense relief. "O Grandma Elsie, it's
only a dog, and I thought it a crazy man or a wicked murderer!"

As she spoke the animal emerged from his hiding-place and walked into
the outer room, dragging his chain after him.

Edward at once recognized him as a large mastiff Harry Duncan had shown
him the previous afternoon.

"It's Mr. Duncan's dog," he said; "he must have broken his chain and
come in unobserved before the house was closed for the night. Here,
Nero, good fellow, this way! You've done mischief enough for one night,
and we'll send you home."

He led the way to the outer door, the dog following quite peaceably,
while Elsie, hearing sobs coming from the other room, hastened in to
comfort and relieve the frightened children.

Grace still slept on in blessed unconsciousness; but she found Lulu
crying hysterically, quite unable to continue her efforts at
self-control, now that the necessity for it was past.

"Poor child!" Elsie said, folding her in her kind arms, "you have had a
terrible fright, have you not?"

"Yes, Grandma Elsie; oh, I've been lying here so long, _so long_,
thinking a murderer or crazy man was under the bed, just ready to jump
out and kill Gracie and me!" she sobbed, clinging convulsively about
Elsie's neck.

"And did not scream for help! What a brave little girl you are!"

"I wanted to, and, oh, I could hardly keep from it! But I thought if I
did it would wake Gracie and scare her to death, and the man would be
sure to jump out and kill us at once."

"Dear child," Elsie said, "you have shown yourself thoughtful, brave,
and unselfish; how proud your father will be of his eldest daughter
when he hears it!"

"O Grandma Elsie, do you think he will? How glad that would make me! It
would pay for all the dreadful fright I have had," Lulu said, her tones
tremulous with joy, as, but a moment ago, they had been with nervousness
and fright.

"I am quite sure of it," Elsie answered, smoothing the little girl's
hair with caressing hand, "quite sure; because I know he loves you very
dearly, and that he admires such courage, unselfishness, and presence of
mind as you have shown to-night."

These kind words did much to turn Lulu's thoughts into a new channel and
thus relieve the bad effects of her fright. But Elsie continued for some
time longer her efforts to soothe her into calmness and forgetfulness,
using tender, caressing words and endearments; then she left her, with
an injunction to try to go immediately to sleep.

Lulu promised compliance, and, attempting it, succeeded far sooner than
she had thought possible.

The whole occurrence seemed like a troubled dream when she awoke in the
morning. It was a delicious day in early October, and as soon as dressed
she went into the garden, where she found John Hencle already at work,
industriously weeding and watering his plants and flowers.

"Goot-morning, mine leetle mees," he said, catching sight of her, "Was
it so goot a night mit you?"

"No," she said, and went on to tell the story of her fright.

"Dot ish lige me," he remarked, phlegmatically, at the conclusion of her
tale. "Von nighd I hears somedings what make me scare. I know notings
what he ish; I shust hears a noise, an' I shumpt de bed out, and ran de
shtairs down, and looked de window out, and it wasn't notings but a
leetle tog going 'Bow wow.'"

"I don't think it was very much like my fright," remarked Lulu, in
disgust; "it couldn't have been half so bad."

"Vell, maype not; but dat Nero ish a goot, kind tog; he bide dramps, but
nefer dose nice leetle girl. Dis ish de great day when dose nice old
lady pees von huntred years old. What you dinks? a fery long dime to
live?"

"Yes; very long," returned Lulu, emphatically. "I wish I knew papa would
live to be that old, for then he'd be at home with us almost forty years
after he retires from the navy."

"Somebody ish call you, I dinks," said John, and at the same moment
Grace's clear, bird-like voice came floating on the morning breeze,
"Lulu, Lulu!" as her dainty little figure danced gayly down the garden
path in search of her missing sister.

"Oh, there you are!" she exclaimed, catching sight of Lulu. "Come into
Aunt Wealthy's house and see the pretty presents everybody has given her
for her hundredth birthday. She hasn't seen them yet, but she is going
to when she comes down to eat her breakfast."

"Oh, I'd like to see them!" exclaimed Lulu, and she and Grace tripped
back to the house together, and on into the sitting-room, where, on a
large table, the gifts were displayed.

They were many, and some of them costly, for the old lady was very dear
to the hearts of these relatives, and they were able as well as willing
to show their affection in this substantial way.

There were fine paintings and engravings to adorn her walls; fine china,
and glittering cut glass, silver and gold ware for her tables; vases for
her mantels; richly-bound and illustrated books, whose literary contents
were worthy of the costly adornment, and various other things calculated
to give her pleasure or add to her ease and comfort.

She was not anticipating any such demonstration of affection--not
expecting such substantial evidences of the love and esteem in which she
was held--and when brought face to face with them was almost overcome,
so that tears of joy and gratitude streamed from her aged eyes,

They were soon wiped away, however, and she was again her own bright,
cheery self, full of thought and care for others--the kindest and most
genial of hostesses.

She took the head of the breakfast-table herself, and poured the coffee
for her guests with her own hands, entertaining them the while with
cheerful chat, and causing many a merry laugh with the old-time tripping
of her tongue--a laugh in which she always joined with hearty relish.

"There is too much butter in this salt," she remarked. "It is some John
Hencle brought in this morning. I must see him after breakfast and bid
him caution his wife to use less."

But as they rose from the table John came in unsummoned, and carrying a
fine large goose under each arm.

Bowing low: "I ish come to pring two gooses to de von hundredth
birthday," he announced; "dey pees goot, peaceable pirds: I ish know dem
for twenty years, and dey nefer makes no droubles."

A smile went round the little circle, but Miss Stanhope said, with a
very pleased look, "Thank you, John; they shall be well fed, and I hope
they will like their new quarters. How is Jake doing? I haven't seen
him for some time."

"No; Shakey is go to school most days. I vants Shakey to knows
somedings."

"Yes, indeed; I hope Jakey is going to have a good education. But what
do you mean to do with him after he is done going to school?"

"Vy, I dinks I prings mine Shakey to town and hangs him on to Sheneral
Shmicdt and makes a brinting-office out of him."

"A printer, John? Well, that might be a very good thing if you don't
need him to help you about the farm, or our grounds. I should think you
would, though."

"Nein, nein," said John, shaking his head; "'tis not so long as I vants
Shakey to makes mit me a fence; put I tash! Miss Stanhope, he say he
ton't can know how to do it; and I says, 'I tash! Shakey, you peen goin'
to school all your life, and you don't know de vay to makes a fence
yet.'"

"Not so very strange," remarked Edward, with unmoved countenance, "for
they don't teach fence-making in ordinary schools."

"Vell, den, de more's de bity," returned John, taking his departure. But
turning back at the door to say to Miss Stanhope, "I vill put dose
gooses in von safe place."

"Any place where they can do no mischief, John," she answered,
good-humoredly.

"Now, Aunt Wealthy," said Annis, "what can we do to make this wonderful
day pass most happily to you?"

"Whatever will be most enjoyable to my guests," was the smiling reply.
"An old body like me can ask nothing better than to sit and look on and
listen."

"Ah, but we would have you talk, too, auntie, when you don't find it
wearisome!"

"What are you going to do with all your new treasures, Aunt Wealthy?"
asked Edward; "don't you want your pictures hung and a place found for
each vase and other household ornament?"

"Certainly," she said, with a pleased look, "and this is the very time,
while I have you all here to give your opinions and advice."

"And help," added Edward, "if you will accept it. As I am tall and
strong, I volunteer to hang the pictures after the place for each has
been duly considered and decided upon."

His offer was promptly accepted, and the work entered upon in a spirit
of fun and frolic, which made it enjoyable to all.

Whatever the others decided upon met with Miss Stanhope's approval; she
watched their proceedings with keen interest, and was greatly delighted
with the effect of their labors.

"My dears," she said, "you have made my house so beautiful! and whenever
I look at these lovely things my thoughts will be full of the dear
givers. I shall not be here long, but while I stay my happiness will be
the greater because of your kindness,"

"And the remembrance of these words of yours, dear aunt, will add to
ours," said Mr. Keith, with feeling.

"But old as you are, Aunt Wealthy," remarked Mr. Dinsmore, "it is quite
possible that some of us may reach home before you. It matters little,
however, as we are all travelling the same road to the same happy
country, being children of one Father, servants of the same blessed
Master."

"And He shall choose all our changes for us," she said, "calling each
one home at such time as He sees best. Ah, it is sweet to leave all our
interests in His dear hands, and have Him choose our inheritance for
us!"

There was a pause in the conversation, while Miss Stanhope seemed lost
in thought. Then Mrs. Keith remarked:

"You look weary, dear Aunt Wealthy; will you not lie down and rest for a
little?"

"Yes," she said, "I shall take it as the privilege of age, leaving you
all to entertain yourselves and each other for a time."

At that Mr. Dinsmore hastened to give her his arm and support her to her
bedroom, his wife and Mrs. Keith following to see her comfortably
established upon a couch, where they left her to take her rest.

The others scattered in various directions, as inclination dictated.

Elsie and Annis sought the grounds, and, taking possession of a rustic
seat beneath a spreading tree, had a long, quiet talk, recalling
incidents of other days, and exchanging mutual confidences.

"What changes we have passed through since our first acquaintance !"
exclaimed Annis. "What careless, happy children we were then!"

"And what happy women we are now!" added Elsie, with a joyous smile.

"Yes; and you a grandmother! I hardly know how to believe it! You seem
wonderfully young for that."

"Do I?" laughed Elsie. "I acknowledge that I feel young--that I have
never yet been able to reason myself into feeling old."

"Don't try; keep young as long as ever you can," was Annis's advice.

"It is what you seem to be doing," said Elsie, sportively, and with an
admiring look at her cousin. "Dear Annis, may I ask why it is you have
never married? It must certainly have been your own fault."

"Really, I hardly know what reply to make to that last remark," returned
Annis, in her sprightly way. "But I have not the slightest objection to
answering your question. I will tell 'the truth, the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth.' I have had friends and admirers among the
members of the other sex, but have never yet seen the man for love of
whom I could for a moment think of leaving father and mother."

"How fortunate for them!" Elsie said, with earnest sincerity. "I know
they must esteem it a great blessing that they have been able to keep
one dear daughter in the old home."

"And I esteem myself blest indeed in having had my dear father and
mother spared to me all these years," Annis said, with feeling. "What a
privilege it is, Elsie, to be permitted to smooth, some of the
roughnesses from their pathway now in their declining years; to make
life even a trifle easier and happier than it might otherwise be to
them--the dear parents who so tenderly watched over me in infancy and
youth! I know you can appreciate it--you who love your father so
devotedly.

"But Cousin Horace is still a comparatively young man, hale and hearty,
and to all appearance likely to live many years, while my parents are
aged and infirm, and I cannot hope to keep them long." Her voice was
husky with emotion as she concluded.

"Dear Annis," Elsie said, pressing tenderly the hand she held in hers,
"you are never to lose them. They may be called home before you, but the
separation will be short and the reunion for eternity--an eternity of
unspeakable joy, unclouded bliss at the right hand of Him whom you all
love better than you love each other."

"That is true," Annis responded, struggling with her tears, "and there
is very great comfort in the thought; yet one cannot help dreading the
parting, and feeling that death is a thing to be feared for one's dear
ones and one's self. Death is a terrible thing, Elsie."

"Not half so much so to me as it once was, dear cousin," Elsie said, in
a tenderly sympathizing tone. "I have thought much lately on that sweet
text, 'Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of His saints;'
and that other, 'He shall see of the travail of his soul, and shall be
satisfied,' and the contemplation has shown me so much of the love of
Jesus for the souls He has bought with His own precious blood and the
joyful reception He gives them, as one by one they are gathered home,
that it seems to me the death of a Christian should hardly bring sorrow
to any heart. Oh, it has comforted me much in my separation from the
dear husband of my youth, and made me at times look almost eagerly
forward to the day when my dear Lord shall call me home and I shall see
His face!"

"O Elsie," cried Annis, "I trust that day may be far distant, for many
hearts would be like to break at parting with you! But there is
consolation for the bereaved in the thoughts you suggest; and I shall
try to cherish them and forget the gloom of the grave and the dread, for
myself and for those I love, of the parting."

They were silent for a moment; then Elsie said, as if struck by a sudden
thought, "Annis, why should not you and your father and mother go home
with us and spend the fall and winter at Ion and Viamede?"

"I cannot think of anything more delightful!" exclaimed Annis, her face
lighting up with pleasure; "and I believe it would be for their health
to escape the winter in our severer climate, for they are both subject
to colds and rheumatism at that season."

"Then you will persuade them?"

"If I can, Elsie. How kind in you to give the invitation!"

"Not at all, Annis; for in so doing I seek my own gratification as well
as theirs and yours," Elsie answered, with earnest sincerity. "We
purpose going from here to Ion, and from there to Viamede, perhaps two
months later, to spend the remainder of the winter. And you and your
father and mother will find plenty of room and a warm welcome in both
places."

"I know it, Elsie," Annis said; "I know you would not say so if it were
not entirely true, and I feel certain of a great deal of enjoyment in
your loved society, if father and mother accept your kind invitation."

While these two conversed together thus in the grounds, a grand banquet
was in course of preparation in Miss Stanhope's house, under the
supervision of our old friends, May and Lottie. To it Elsie and Annis
were presently summoned, in common with the other guests.

When the feasting was concluded, and all were again gathered in the
parlors, Elsie renewed her invitation already made to Annis, this time
addressing herself to Mr. and Mrs. Keith.

They heard it with evident pleasure, and after some consideration
accepted.

Edward and Zoe returned to Ion the following day, Herbert and Harold
leaving at the same time for college. The rest of the Travillas, the
Dinsmores, and the Raymonds lingered a week or two longer with Miss
Stanhope, who was very loath to part with them, Elsie in especial; then
bade farewell, scarce expecting to see her again on earth, and turned
their faces homeward, rejoicing in the promise of Mr. and Mrs. Keith
that they and Annis would soon follow, should nothing happen to prevent.