

Three years ago I spent some six weeks on Nantucket Island, making the
town of the same name my headquarters, but visiting other points of
interest, to which I take the characters of my story; so that in
describing the pleasures of a sojourn there during our heated term, I
write from experience; though, in addition to my own notes, I have made
use of Northrup's "'Sconset Cottage Life" to refresh my memory and
assist me in giving a correct idea of the life led by summer visitors
who take up their abode for the season in one of those odd little
dwellings which form the "original 'Sconset."

Should my account of the delights of Nantucket as a summer resort lead
any of my readers to try it for themselves, I trust they will not meet
with disappointment or find my picture overdrawn.

M.F.





CHAPTER I.

                    "How happy they,
Who from the toil and tumult of their lives
Steal to look down where naught but ocean strives."

--_Byron._


"Well, captain, for how long have you Uncle Sam's permission to stay on
shore this time?" asked Mr. Dinsmore, as the family at Ion sat about the
breakfast-table on the morning after Captain Raymond's arrival.

"Just one month certain, sir, with the possibility that the leave of
absence may be extended," was the reply, in a cheery tone; "and as I
want to make the very most of it, I propose that our plans for a summer
outing be at once discussed, decided upon, and carried out."

"I second the motion," said Mr. Dinsmore. "Are all the grown people
agreed? The consent of the younger ones may safely be taken for
granted," he added, with a smiling glance from one to another.

"I am agreed and ready for suggestions," replied his wife.

"And I," said his daughter.

"Vi is, of course, since the proposition comes from her husband," Edward
remarked, with a sportive look at her; then glancing at his own little
wife: "and as I approve, Zoe will be equally ready with her consent."

"Have you any suggestion to offer, captain?" asked Mr. Dinsmore.

"I have, sir; and it is that we make the island of Nantucket our summer
resort for this year, dividing the time, if you like, between Nantucket
Town and the quaint little fishing village Siasconset, or 'Sconset, as
they call it for short. There is an odd little box of a cottage there
belonging to a friend of mine, a Captain Coffin, which I have partially
engaged until the first of September. It wouldn't hold nearly all of us,
but we may be able to rent another for the season, or we can pitch a
tent or two, and those who prefer it can take rooms, with or without
board, at the hotels or boarding-houses. What do you all say?" glancing
from his mother-in-law to his wife.

"It sounds very pleasant, captain," Elsie said; "but please tell us more
about it; I'm afraid I must acknowledge shameful ignorance of that
portion of my native land."

"A very small corner of the same, yet a decidedly interesting one,"
returned the captain; then went on to give a slight sketch of its
geography and history.

"It is about fifteen miles long, and averages four in width. Nantucket
Town is a beautiful, quaint old place; has some fine wide streets
and handsome residences, a great many narrow lanes running in all
directions, and many very odd-looking old houses, some of them
inhabited, but not a few empty; for of the ten thousand former residents
only about three thousand now remain."

"How does that happen, Levis?" asked Violet, as he paused for a moment.

"It used to be a great seat of the whale-fishery," he answered; "indeed,
that was the occupation of the vast majority of the men of the island;
but, as I presume you know, the whale-fishery has, for a number of
years, been declining, partly owing to the scarcity of whales, partly
to the discovery of coal-oil, which has been largely substituted for
whale-oil as an illuminant (as has gas also, by the way), and to
substitutes being found or invented for whale-bone also.

"So the Nantucketers lost their principal employment, and wandered off
to different parts of the country or the world in search of another; and
the wharves that once presented a scene full of life and bustle are now
lonely and deserted. Property there was wonderfully depreciated for a
time, but is rising in value now with the influx of summer visitors. It
is becoming quite a popular resort--not sea-side exactly, for there you
are right out in the sea."

"Let us go there," said Mrs. Dinsmore; "I think it would be a pleasant
variety to get fairly out into the sea for once, instead of merely
alongside of it."

"Oh, yes, do let us go!"

"I'm in favor of it!"

"And I!"

"And I!" cried one and another, while Mr. Dinsmore replied, laughingly,
to his wife, "Provided you don't find the waves actually rolling over
you, I suppose, my dear. Well, the captain's description is very
appetizing so far, but let us hear what more he has to say on the
subject."

"Haven't I said enough, sir?" returned the captain, with a good-humored
smile. "You will doubtless want to find some things out for yourselves
when you get there."

"Are there any mountains, papa?" asked little Grace. "I'd like to see
some."

"So you shall, daughter," he said; "but we will have to go elsewhere
than to Nantucket to find them."

"No hills either?" she asked.

"Yes, several ranges of not very high hills; Saul's Hills are the
highest; then there are bluffs south of 'Sconset known as Sunset
Heights; indeed, the village itself stands on a bluff high above the
sandy beach, where the great waves come rolling in. And there is 'Tom
Never's Head.' Also Nantucket Town is on high ground sloping gradually
up from the harbor; and just out of the town, to the north-west, are the
Cliffs, where you go to find surf-bathing; in the town itself you must
be satisfied with still-bathing. An excellent place, by the way, to
teach the children how to swim."

"Then you can teach me, Edward," said Zoe; "I'd like to learn."

"I shall be delighted," he returned, gallantly.

"Papa," asked Max, "are there any woods and streams where one may hunt
and fish?"

"Hardly anything to be called woods," the captain answered; "trees of
any size are few on the island. Except the shade trees in the town, I
think some ragged, stunted pines are all you will find; but there are
streams and ponds to fish in, to say nothing of the great ocean. There
is some hunting, too, for there are plover on the island."

"Well, shall we go and see for ourselves, as the captain advises?" asked
Mr. Dinsmore, addressing the company in general.

Every voice answered in the affirmative, though Elsie, looking
doubtfully at Violet, remarked that she feared she was hardly strong
enough for so long a journey.

"Ah, that brings me to my second proposition, mother," said Captain
Raymond; "that--seeing what a very large company we shall make,
especially if we can persuade our friends from Fairview, the Oaks, and
the Laurels to accompany us--we charter a yacht and go by sea."

"Oh, captain, what a nice idea!" cried Zoe, clapping her hands. "I love
the sea--love to be either beside it or on it."

"I think it would be ever so nice!" Rosie exclaimed. "Oh, grandpa and
mamma, do say yes!"

"I shall not oppose it, my dear," Elsie said; "indeed, I think it may
perhaps be our best plan. How does it strike you, father?"

"Favorably," he replied, "if we can get the yacht. Do you know of one
that might be hired, captain?"

"I do, sir; a very fine one. I have done with it as with the
cottage--partially engaged it--feeling pretty sure you would all
fall in with my views."

"Captain," cried Zoe, "you're just a splendid man! I know of only one
that's more so," with a laughing look at her husband.

The captain bowed his acknowledgments. "As high praise as I could
possibly ask, my dear sister. I trust that one may always stand first in
your esteem."

"He always will," said Zoe; "but," with another glance, arch and
smiling, into Edward's eyes, "don't tell him, lest he should grow
conceited and vain."

"Don't tell him, because it would be no news," laughed Edward, gazing
with fondness and admiration at the blooming face of the loved
flatterer.

The talk went on about the yacht, and before they left the table the
captain was empowered to engage her for their use. Also the 'Sconset
cottage he had spoken of, and one or two more, if they were to be had.

"You will command the vessel, of course, captain?" several voices said,
inquiringly, all speaking at once.

"If chosen commander by a unanimous vote," he said.

"Of course, of course; we'll be only too glad to secure your services,"
said Mr. Dinsmore, everybody else adding a word of glad assent.

"How soon do we sail, captain?" asked Zoe. "Must we wait for an answer
from Nantucket?"

"No; I shall send word by this morning's mail, to Captain Coffin, that
we will take his cottage and two others, if he can engage them for us.
But there is no time to wait for a reply."

"Can't we telegraph?" asked Violet.

"No; because there is no telegraph from the mainland to the island.

"Now, ladies all, please make your preparations as rapidly as possible.
We ought to be off by the first of next week. I can telegraph for the
yacht, and she will be ready for us, lying at anchor in our own harbor.

"But, little wife," turning to Violet, with a tenderly affectionate air,
"you are not to exert yourself in the least with shopping, sewing, or
packing. I positively forbid it," he added, with playful authority.

"That is right, captain," Elsie said, with a pleased smile. "She is not
strong enough yet for any such exertion, nor has she any need to make
it."

"Ah, mamma," said Violet, "are you not forgetting the lessons you used
to give us, your children, on the sin of indolence and self-indulgence?"

"No, daughter; nor those on the duty of doing all in our power for the
preservation of health as one of God's good gifts, and to be used in His
service."

They were all gathered upon the veranda now in the cool shade of the
trees and vines, for the weather was extremely warm.

"I wish we were ready to sail to-day," said Zoe. "How delicious the
sea-breeze would be!"

A nice-looking, pleasant-faced colored woman stepped from the doorway
with a little bundle in her arms, which she carried to Violet.

The captain, standing beside his wife, bent over her and the babe with a
face full of love and delight.

"Isn't she a darling?" whispered Violet, gazing down upon the tiny
creature with all a young mother's unspeakable love and pride in her
first-born, then up into her husband's face.

"That she is!" he responded; "I never saw a fairer, sweeter babe. I
should fear to risk her little life and health in a journey to Nantucket
by land; but going by sea will, I think, be more likely to do her good
than harm."

"It's all her, her, when you talk about that baby," laughed Rosie; "why
don't you call her by her name?"

"So we will, Aunt Rosie, if you will kindly inform us what it is,"
returned the captain, good-humoredly.

"I, sir!" exclaimed Rosie; "we have all been told again and again that
you were to decide upon the name on your arrival; and you've been
here--how many hours?--and it seems the poor little dear is nameless
yet."

"Apparently not greatly afflicted by it either," said the captain,
adopting Rosie's sportive tone. "My love, what do you intend to call
your daughter?"

"Whatever her father appoints as her name," returned Vi, laughingly.

"No, no," he said; "you are to name her yourself; you have undoubtedly
the best right."

"Thank you; then, if you like, she shall be mamma's namesake; her first
granddaughter should be, I think, as the first grandson was papa's."

"I highly approve your choice," he said, with a glance of affectionate
admiration directed toward his mother-in-law; "and may a strong
resemblance in both looks and character descend to her with the name."

"We will all say amen to that, captain," said Edward.

"Yes, indeed," added Zoe, heartily.

"Thank you both," Elsie said, with a gratified look; "I appreciate the
compliment; but if I had the naming of my little granddaughter, she
should be another Violet; there is already an Elsie in the family
besides myself, you know, and it makes a little confusion to have too
many of the same name."

"Then, mamma, we can make a variety by calling this one Else for short,"
returned Violet, gayly, holding up the babe to receive a caress from
its grandmother, who had drawn near, evidently with the purpose of
bestowing it.

"What a pretty pet it is!" Elsie said, taking it in her arms and gazing
delightedly into the tiny face. "Don't you think so, captain?"

"Of course I do, mother," he said, with a happy laugh. Then, examining
its features critically: "I really fancy I see a slight resemblance to
you now, which I trust is destined to increase with increasing years.
But excuse me, ladies; I must go and write that all-important letter at
once, or it will be too late for the mail."

He hurried away to the library, and entering it hastily, but without
much noise, for he wore slippers, found Lulu there, leaning moodily out
of a window.

She had stolen away from the veranda a moment before, saying to herself,
in jealous displeasure, "Such a fuss over that little bit of a thing! I
do believe papa is going to care more for it than for any of us, his own
children, that he had long before he ever saw Mamma Vi; and it's just
too bad."

Knowing Lulu as he did, her father instantly conjectured what was
passing in her mind. It grieved and angered him, yet strong affection
was mingled with his displeasure, and he silently asked help of God to
deal wisely with this child of his love.

He remembered that Lulu was more easily ruled through her affections
than in any other way, and as she turned toward him, with a flushed and
shamefaced countenance, he went to her, took her in his arms, held her
close to his heart, and kissed her tenderly several times.

"My dear, dear little daughter," he said. "How often, when far away on
the sea, I have longed to do this--to hold my dear Lulu in my arms and
feel hers about my neck and her sweet kisses on my lips."

Her arms were instantly thrown round his neck, while she returned his
kisses with interest.

"Papa," she said, "I do love you so, _so_ dearly; but I 'most wonder you
don't quit loving such a hateful girl as I am."

"Perhaps I might not love an ill-tempered, jealous child belonging to
somebody else," he said, as if half in jest, half in earnest; "but you
are my own," drawing her closer and repeating his caresses, "my very
own; and so I have to love you in spite of everything. But, my little
girl," and his tone grew very grave and sad, "if you do not fight
determinately against these wrong feelings you will never know rest or
happiness in this world or the next.

"But we won't talk any more about it now; I have no time, as I ought to
be writing my letter. Run away and make yourself happy, collecting
together such toys and books as you would like to carry with you to
Nantucket. Grandma Elsie and Mamma Vi will decide what you and the rest
will need in the way of clothing."

"I will, papa; and oh, but I think you are good to me!" she said, giving
him a final hug and kiss; "a great deal better than I deserve; but I
will try to be good."

"Do, my child," he said; "and not in your own strength; God will help
you if you ask Him."

For the moment thoroughly ashamed of her jealousy of the baby, she ran
back to the veranda, where the others still were, and bending over it as
it lay its mother's arms, kissed it several times.

Violet's face flushed with pleasure. "My dear Lulu, I hope you and
little Else are going to be very fond of each other," she said.

"I hope so, Mamma Vi," Lulu answered, pleasantly; then, in a sudden fit
of penitence, added, "but I'm afraid she'll never learn any good from
the example of her oldest sister."

"My dear child, resolve that she shall," said Grandma Elsie, standing
by; "you cannot avoid having a good deal of influence over her as she
grows older, and do not forget that you will have to give an account
for the use you make of it."

"I suppose that's so," Lulu answered, with a little impatient shrug of
her shoulders; "but I wish it wasn't." Then, turning abruptly away, "Max
and Gracie," she called to her brother and sister, "papa says we may go
and gather up any books and toys we want to take with us."

The three ran off together in high glee. The ladies stayed a little
longer, deep in consultation about necessary arrangements which must
fall to their share: then dispersed to their several apartments, with
the exception of Violet, who, forbidden to exert herself, remained where
she was till joined by her husband, when he had finished and despatched
his letter. It was great happiness to them to be together after their
long separation.

Mr. Dinsmore and Edward had walked out into the avenue, and were seated
under a tree in earnest conversation.

"Talking tiresome business, I suppose," remarked Zoe, in a half-petulant
tone, glancing toward them as she spoke, and apparently addressing
Violet, as she was the only other person on the veranda at the moment.

"Yes, no doubt; but we must have patience with them, dear, because it
is very necessary," Violet answered, with a smile. "Probably they are
discussing the question how the plantation is to be attended to in their
absence. You know it won't take care of itself, and the men must have a
head to direct their labors."

"Oh yes, of course; and for that reason Ned is kept ever so busy while
we are here, and I do think it will be delightful to get away to the
seashore with him, where there will be nothing to do but enjoy
ourselves."

Zoe skipped away with the last word, ran up to her room, and began
turning over the contents of bureau drawers and taking garments from
wardrobes and closets, with the view of selecting such as she might deem
it desirable to carry with her on the contemplated trip.

She was humming softly a snatch of lively song, feeling very gay and
light-hearted, when, coming across a gray travelling-dress a little
worse for the wear, her song suddenly ceased, while tears gathered in
her eyes, then began to fall drop by drop as she stood gazing down, upon
this relic of former days.

"Just one year ago," she murmured. "Papa, papa! I never thought I could
live a whole year without you; and be happy, too! Ah, that seems
ungrateful, when you were so, so good to me! But no; I am sure you would
rather have me happy; and it would be ungrateful to my dear husband if I
were not."

She put the dress aside, wiped away her tears, and took down another.
It was a dark woollen dress. She had travelled home in it the previous
fall, and had worn it once since on a very memorable occasion; her cheek
crimsoned at the recollection as she glanced from it to her husband, who
entered the room at that instant; then her eyes fell.

"What is it, love?" he asked, coming quickly toward her.

"Nothing, only--you remember the last time you saw me in this dress? Oh,
Ned, what a fool I was! and how good you were to me!"

He had her in his arms by this time, and she was hiding her blushing
face on his breast. "Never mind, my pet," he said, soothing her with
caresses; "it is a secret between ourselves, and always shall be, unless
you choose to tell it."

"I? No indeed!" she said, drawing a long breath; "I think I should
almost die of mortification if any one else should find it out; but I'm
glad you know it, because if you didn't my conscience wouldn't give me a
bit of peace till I confessed to you."

"Ah! and would that be very difficult?"

"Yes; I don't know how I could ever find courage to make the attempt."

"Are you really so much afraid of me?" he asked, in a slightly aggrieved
tone.

"Yes; for I love you so dearly that your displeasure is perfectly
unendurable," she replied, lifting her head to gaze fondly into his
eyes.

"Ah, is that it, my darling?" he said, in a glow of delight. "I deem
myself a happy man in possessing such a treasure as you and your dear
love. I can hardly reconcile myself to the thought of a separation for
even a few weeks."

"Separation!" she cried, with a start, and in a tone of mingled pain and
incredulity. "What can you mean? But I won't be separated from you; I'm
your wife, and I claim the right to cling to you always, _always_!"

"And I would have you do so, if it could be without a sacrifice of your
comfort and enjoyment, but--"

"Comfort and enjoyment!" she interrupted; "it is here in your arms or by
your side that I find both; nowhere else. But why do you talk so? is
anything wrong?"

"Nothing, except that it seems impossible for me to leave the plantation
for weeks to come, unless I can get a better substitute than I know of
at present."

"Oh, Ned, I am so sorry!" she cried, tears of disappointment springing
to her eyes.

"Don't feel too badly about it, little wife," he said, in a cheery tone;
"it is just possible the right man may turn up before the yacht sails;
and in that case I can go with the rest of you; otherwise I shall hope
to join you before your stay at Nantucket is quite over."

"Not my stay; for I won't go one step of the way without you, unless you
order me!" she added, sportively, and with a vivid blush; "and I'm not
sure that I'll do it even in that case."

"Oh, yes you will," he said, laughingly. "You know you promised to be
always good and obedient on condition that I would love you and keep
you; and I'm doing both to the very best of my ability."

"But you won't be if you send me away from you. No, no; I have a right
to stay with you, and I shall claim it always," she returned, clinging
to him as if she feared an immediate separation.

"Foolish child!" he said, with a happy laugh, holding her close; "think
what you would lose: the sea voyage in the pleasantest of company--"

"No; the pleasantest company would be left behind if you were," she
interrupted.

"Well, very delightful company," he resumed; "then I don't know how many
weeks of the oppressive heat here you would have to endure, instead of
enjoying the cool, refreshing breezes sweeping over Nantucket. Surely,
you cannot give it all up without a sigh?"

"I can't give up the thought of enjoying it all with you without
sighing, and crying, too, maybe," she answered, smiling through tears;
"but I'd sigh and cry ten times as much if I had to go and leave you
behind. No, Mr. Travilla, you needn't indulge the hope of getting rid of
me for even a week. I'm determined to stay where you stay, and go only
where you go."

"Dreadful fate!" he exclaimed. "Well, little wife, I shall do my best to
avert the threatened disappointment of your hopes of a speedy departure
out of this heated atmosphere and a delightful sea voyage to that famous
island. Now, I must leave you and begin at once my search for a
substitute as manager of the plantation."

"Oh, I do hope you will succeed!" she said. "Shall I go on with my
packing?"

"Just as you please, my dear; perhaps it would be best; as otherwise you
may be hurried with it if we are able to go with the others."

"Then I shall; and I'm determined not to look for disappointment," she
said, in a lively, cheery tone, as he left the room,

At the conclusion of his conference with Edward, Mr. Dinsmore sought his
daughter in her own apartments. He found her busied much as Zoe was,
looking over clothing and selecting what ought to be packed in the
trunks a man-servant was bringing in.

She had thrown aside the widow's weeds in which she was wont to array
herself when about to leave the seclusion of her own rooms, and donned a
simple white morning dress that was very becoming, her father thought.

"Excuse my wrapper, papa," she said, turning toward him a bright, sweet
face, as he entered; "I found my black dress oppressive this warm
morning."

"Yes," he said; "it is a most unwholesome dress, I think; and for that
reason and several others I should be extremely glad if you would give
it up entirely."

"Would you, my dear father?" she returned, tears springing to her eyes.

"I should indeed, if it would not involve too great a sacrifice of
feeling on your part. I have always thought white the most suitable and
becoming dress for you in the summer season, and so did your husband."

"Yes, papa, I remember that he did; but--I--I should be very loath to
give the least occasion for any one to say or think he was forgotten by
her he loved so dearly, or that she had ceased to mourn his loss."

"Loss, daughter dear?" he said, taking her in his arms to wipe away the
tears that were freely coursing down her cheeks, and caress her with
exceeding tenderness.

"No, papa, not lost, but only gone before," she answered, a lovely
smile suddenly irradiating her features; "nor does he seem far away. I
often feel that he is very near me still, though I can neither see nor
speak to him nor hear his loved voice," she went on, in a dreamy tone, a
far-away look in the soft brown eyes as she stood, with her head on her
father's shoulder, his arm encircling her waist.

Both were silent for some moments; then Elsie, lifting her eyes to her
father's face, asked, "Were you serious in what you said about my laying
aside mourning, papa?"

"Never more so," he answered. "It is a gloomy, unwholesome dress, and I
have grown very weary of seeing you wear it. It would be very gratifying
to me to see you exchange it for more cheerful attire."

"But black is considered the most suitable dress for old and elderly
ladies, papa; and I am a grandmother, you know."

"What of that?" he said, a trifle impatiently; "you do not look old, and
are, in fact, just in the prime of life. And it is not like you to be
concerned about what people may think or say. Usually your only inquiry
is, 'Is it right?' 'Is it what I ought to do?'"

"I fear that is a deserved reproof, papa," she said, with unaffected
humility; "and I shall be governed by your wishes in this matter, for
they have been law to me almost all my life (a law I have loved to
obey, dear father), and I know that if my husband were here he would
approve of my decision."

She could not entirely suppress a sigh as she spoke, nor keep the tears
from filling her eyes.

Her father saw and appreciated the sacrifice she would make for him.

"Thank you, my darling," he said. "It seems selfish in me to ask it of
you, but though partly for my own gratification, it is really still more
for your sake; I think the change will be for your health and
happiness."

"And I have the highest opinion of my father's wisdom," she said, "and
should never, never think of selfishness as connected with him."

Mrs. Dinsmore came in at this moment.

"Ah, my dear," she said, "I was in search of you. What is to be done
about Bob and Betty Johnson? You know they will be coming home in a day
or two for their summer vacation."

"They can stay at Roselands with their cousins Calhoun and Arthur Conly;
or at the Oaks, if Horace and his family do not join us in the trip to
Nantucket."

"Cannot Bob and Betty go with us, papa?" Elsie asked. "I have no doubt
it would be a very great treat to them."

"Our party promises to be very large," he replied; "but if you two
ladies are agreed to invite them I shall raise no objection."

"Shall we not, mamma?" Elsie asked, and Rose gave a hearty assent.

"Now, how much dressmaking has to be done before the family can be ready
for the trip?" asked Mr. Dinsmore.

"Very little," the ladies told him, Elsie adding, "At least if you are
willing to let me wear black dresses when it is too cool for white,
papa. Mamma, he has asked me to lay aside my mourning."

"I knew he intended to," Rose said, "and I think you are a dear good
daughter to do it."

"It is nothing new; she has always been the best of daughters," Mr.
Dinsmore remarked, with a tenderly affectionate look at Elsie. "And, my
dear child, I certainly shall not ask you to stay a day longer than
necessary in this hot place, merely to have new dresses made when you
have enough even of black ones. We must set sail as soon as possible.
Now, I must have a little business chat with you. Don't go, Rose; it is
nothing that either of us would care to have you hear."




CHAPTER II.

"Where the broad ocean leans against the land."

--_Goldsmith_.


Elsie felt somewhat apprehensive that this early laying aside of her
mourning for their father might not meet the approval of her older son
and daughters; but it gave them pleasure; one and all were delighted to
see her resume the dress of the happy days when he was with them.

Zoe, too, was very much pleased. "Mamma," she said, "you do look so
young and lovely in white; and it was so nice in you to begin wearing it
again on the anniversary of our wedding-day. Just think, it's a whole
year to-day since Edward and I were married. How fast time flies!"

"Yes," Elsie said; "it seems a very little while since I was as young
and light-hearted as you are now, and now I am a grandmother."

"But still happy; are you not, mamma? you always seem so to me."

"Yes, my child; I have a very peaceful, happy life. I miss my husband,
but I know the separation is only for a short time, and that he is
supremely blessed. And with my beloved father and dear children about
me, heart and hands are full--delightfully full--leaving no room for
sadness and repining." This little talk was on the veranda, as the two
stood there for a moment apart from the others. Zoe was looking quite
bride-like in a white India mull, much trimmed with rich lace, her fair
neck and arms adorned with a set of beautiful pearls, just presented her
by Edward in commemoration of the day.

She called Elsie's attention to them. "See, mamma, what my husband has
given me in memory of the day. Are they not magnificent?"

"It is a very fine set," Elsie answered, with a smile, glancing
admiringly at the jewels and from them to the blooming face of the
wearer. "A most suitable gift for his little wife."

"He's so good to me, mamma," Zoe said, with warmth. "I love him better
every day we live together, and couldn't think of leaving him behind
alone, when you all go off to Nantucket. I do hope he'll be able to find
somebody to take his place; but if he isn't I shall stay here with him."

"That is quite right, dear child; I am very glad you love him so
dearly," Elsie said, with a very pleased look; "but I hope your
affection will not be put to so severe a test; we have heard of a very
suitable person, though it is still uncertain whether his services can
be secured. We shall probably know to-morrow."

"Perhaps sooner than that," Mr. Dinsmore said, approaching them just in
time to hear his daughter's last sentence; "Edward has gone to have an
interview with him, and hopes for a definite reply to his proposition.
Ah, here he comes now!" as Edward was seen to turn in at the great gates
and come up the avenue at a gentle trot. It was too warm for a gallop.

As he drew near he took off his hat and waved it in triumph round his
head. "Success, good friends!" he cried, reining in his steed at the
veranda steps. Then, as he threw the reins to a servant and sprang to
the ground, "Zoe, my darling, you can go on with your packing; we may
confidently expect to be able to sail with the rest."

"Oh delightful!" she exclaimed, dancing about as gleefully as if she had
been a maiden of eight or ten instead of a woman just closing the first
year of her married life.

Everybody sympathized in her joy; everybody was glad that she and Edward
were to be of their party.

All the older ones were very busy for the next few days, no one finding
time for rest and quiet chat except the captain and Violet, who keenly
enjoyed a monopoly of each other's society during not a few hours of
every day; Mrs. Dinsmore and Elsie having undertaken to attend to all
that would naturally have fallen to Violet's share in making ready for
the summer's jaunt had she been in robust health. Bob and Betty Johnson,
to whom the Oaks had been home for many years, and who had just
graduated from school, came home in the midst of the bustle of
preparation, and were highly delighted by an invitation to join the
Nantucket party.

No untoward event occurred to cause disappointment or delay; all were
ready in due season, and the yacht set sail at the appointed time, with
a full list of passengers, carrying plenty of luggage, and with fair
winds and sunny skies.

They were favored with exceptionally fine weather all the way, and seas
so smooth that scarce a touch of sea-sickness was felt by any, from the
oldest to the youngest.

They entered Nantucket harbor one lovely summer morning, with a
delicious breeze blowing from the sea, the waves rippling and dancing in
the sunlight, and the pretty town seated like a queen on the surrounding
heights that slope gently up from the water.

They were all gathered on deck, eager for a first glimpse of the place.

Most of them spoke admiringly of it, but Zoe said, "It's pretty enough,
but too much of a town for me. I'm glad we are not to stay in it.
'Sconset is a smaller place, isn't it, captain?"

"Much smaller," he answered; "quite small enough to suit even so great a
lover of solitude as yourself, Mrs. Travilla."

"Oh, you needn't laugh at me," she retorted; "one needn't be a great
lover of solitude to care for no more society than is afforded by this
crowd. But I want to be close by the bounding sea, and this town is shut
off from that by its harbor."

"Where is the harbor, papa?" asked little Grace.

"All around us, my child; we are in it."

"Are we?" she asked, "I think it looks just like the sea; what's the
matter with it, Aunt Zoe?"

"Nothing, only it's too quiet; the great waves don't come rolling in and
breaking along the shore. I heard your father say so; it's here they
have the still bathing."

"Oh, yes, and papa is going to teach us to swim!" exclaimed Lulu; "I'm
so glad, for I like to learn how to do everything."

"That's right," her father said, with an approving smile; "learn all
you can, for 'knowledge is power.'"

They landed, the gentlemen presently secured a sufficient number of
hacks to comfortably accommodate the entire party, and after a cursory
view of the town, in a drive through several of its more important
streets, they started on the road to 'Sconset.

They found it, though a lonely, by no means an unpleasant, drive--a road
marked out only by rows of parallel ruts across wild moorlands, where
the ground was level or slightly rolling, with now and then some gentle
elevation, or a far-off glimpse of harbor or sea, or a lonely farmhouse.
The wastes were treeless, save for the presence of a few stunted
jack-pines; but these gave out a sweet scent, mingling pleasantly with
the smell of the salt-sea air; and there were wild roses and other
flowering shrubs, thistles and tiger-lilies and other wild flowers,
beautiful enough to tempt our travellers to alight occasionally to
gather them.

'Sconset was reached at length, three adjacent cottages found ready and
waiting for their occupancy, and they took possession.

The cottages stood on a high bluff overlooking miles of sea, between
which and the foot of the cliff stretched a low sandy beach a hundred
yards or more in width, and gained by flights of wooden stairs.

The cottages faced inland, and had each a little back yard, grassy, and
showing a few flowers, that reached to within a few yards of the edge of
the bluff. The houses were tiny, built low and strong, that they might
resist the fierce winds of winter in that exposed position, and shingled
all over to keep out the spray from the waves, which would penetrate any
other covering.

Dinner was engaged for our entire party at one of the hotels, of which
there were two; but as it yet wanted more than an hour of the time set
for the meal, all who were not too tired sallied forth to explore the
hamlet and its environs.

They found it to consist of about two hundred cottages, similar to those
they had engaged for the season, each in a little enclosure. They were
built along three narrow streets or lanes running parallel with the edge
of the bluff, and stood in groups of twos or threes, separated by narrow
cross-lanes, giving every one free access to the town pump, the only
source of fresh-water supply in the place.

The children were particularly interested in the cottage of Captain
Baxter, with its famous ship's figure-head in the yard.

Back of the original 'Sconset, on the slight ascent toward Nantucket
Town, stood a few more pretentious cottages, built as summer residences
by the rich men of the island, retired sea captains, and merchants; this
was the one broad street, and here were the two hotels, the Atlantic
House and the Ocean View House.

Then on the bluff south of the old village, called Sunset Heights, there
were some half dozen cottages; a few on the bluff north of it, also.

The town explored and dinner eaten, of course the next thing was to
repair to the beach to watch the rush and tumble of the restless waves,
fast chasing each other in, and the dash of the spray as they broke
along the shore.

There was little else to see, for the bathing hour was long past; but
that was quite enough.

Soon, however, nearly every one of the party began to feel unaccountably
sleepy. Some returned to the cottages for the indulgence of their desire
for slumber, and others, spreading cloaks and shawls upon the sand,
enjoyed a delicious rest, warmed by the sun and fanned by the sea
breeze.

For a day or two they did little but sleep and eat, and sleep and eat
again, enjoying it immensely, too, and growing fat and strong.

After that they woke to new life, made inquiries in regard to all the
sights and amusements the island afforded, and began availing themselves
of their opportunities, as if it were the business of life.

When it was for a long drive to some notable point, all went together,
chartering several vehicles for their conveyance; at other times they
not unfrequently broke up into smaller parties, some preferring one sort
of sport, some another.

"How many of us are going to bathe to-day?" Mr. Dinsmore asked, the
second morning after their arrival.

"I for one, if you will bear me company and look out for my safety,"
said his wife.

"Most assuredly I will," he answered. "And you too, Elsie?" turning to
his daughter.

"Yes, sir," she said, "if you think you can be burdened with the care of
two."

"No, mother," spoke up Edward, quickly; "you and Zoe will be my charge,
of course."

"Ridiculous, Ned! of course, Harold and I will take care of mamma,"
exclaimed Herbert. "You will have enough to do to look out for your
wife's safety."

(The yacht had touched at Cape May and taken the two college students
aboard there.)

"I shall be well taken care of," their mother said, laughingly, with an
affectionate glance from one to another of her three tall sons; "but I
should like one of you to take charge of Rosie, another of Walter; and,
in fact, I don't think I need anything for myself but a strong hold of
the rope to insure my safety."

"You shall have more!" exclaimed father and sons in a breath; "the surf
is heavy here, and we cannot risk your precious life."

Mr. Dinsmore added, "None of you ladies ought to stay in very long, and
we will take you in turn."

"Papa, may I go in?" asked Lulu, eagerly.

"Yes; I'll take you in," the captain answered; "but the waves are so
boisterous that I doubt if you will care to repeat the experiment. Max,
I see, is waiting his chance to ask the same question," he added, with a
fatherly smile directed to the boy; "you may go in too, of course, my
son, if you will promise to hold on to the rope. I cannot think that
otherwise you would be safe in that boiling surf."

"But I can swim, papa," said Max; "and won't you let me go with you out
beyond the surf, where the water is more quiet?"

"Why yes, you shall," the captain replied, with a look of pleasure; "I
did not know that you had learned to swim."

"I don't want to go in," said timid little Grace, as if half fearful it
might be required of her. "Mamma is not going, and can't I stay with
her, papa?"

"Certainly, daughter," was the kind reply. "I suppose you feel afraid of
those dashing waves, and I should never think of forcing you in among
them against your will."

Betty Johnson now announced her intention to join the bathers. "It's
the first chance I've ever had," she remarked, "and I shan't throw it
away. I'll hold on to the rope, and if I'm in any danger I suppose Bob,
or some of the rest of you, will come to my assistance?"

"Of course we will!" all the gentlemen said, her brother adding, "And if
there's a good chance, I'll take you over to Nantucket Town, where
there's still-bathing, and teach you to swim."

"Just what I should like," she said. "I have a great desire to add that
to the already large number of my accomplishments."

Miss Betty was a very lively, in fact, quite wild, young lady, whose
great desire was for fun and frolic; to have, as she expressed it, "a
jolly good time" wherever she went.

The captain drew out his watch. "About time to don the bathing-suits,"
he said; "I understand that eleven o'clock is the hour, and it wants but
fifteen minutes of it."

Grandma Elsie had kindly seen to it that each little girl--that is,
Captain Raymond's two and her own Rosie--was provided with a pretty,
neatly-fitting, and becoming bathing dress.

Violet helped Lulu to put her's on, and, surveying her with a smile of
gratified motherly pride, told her she looked very well in it, and that
she hoped she would enjoy her bath.

"Thank you," said Lulu; "but why don't you go in too, Mamma Vi?"

"Only because I don't feel strong enough to stand up against those heavy
waves," Violet answered. "But I am going down to the beach to watch you
all, and see that you don't drown," she added, sportively.

"Oh Lu, aren't you afraid to go in?" asked little Grace, half shuddering
at the very thought.

"Why no, Gracie; I've bathed in the sea before; I went in a good many
times last summer; don't you remember?"

"Yes; but the waves there weren't half so big and strong."

"No; but I'll have a rope and papa, too, to hold to; so why need I be
afraid?" laughed Lulu.

"Mamma is, I think," said Grace, looking doubtfully at her.

"Oh no, dear," said Violet; "I should not be at all afraid to go in if
I were as strong as usual; but being weak, I know that buffeting with
those great waves would do me more harm than good."

Their cottages being so near the beach, our party all assumed their
bathing suits before descending to it. They went down, this first time,
all in one company, forming quite a procession; Mr. and Mrs. Dinsmore
heading it, and Violet and Grace, as mere spectators, bringing up the
rear.

They, in common with others who had nothing to do but look on, found it
an amusing scene; there was a great variety of costume, some neat,
well-fitting, and modest; some quite immodestly scant; some bright and
new; some faded and old. There was, however, but little freshness and
beauty in any of them when they came out of the water.

Violet and Grace found a seat under an awning. Max came running up to
them.

"Papa is going in with Lulu first," he said; "then he will bring her out
and take me with him for a swim beyond the breakers. I'll just wait here
with you till my turn comes."

"See, see, they're in the water!" cried Grace; "and oh, what a big, big
wave that is coming! There, it would have knocked Lulu down if papa
hadn't had fast hold of her."

"Yes; it knocked a good many others down," laughed Max; "just hear how
they are screeching and screaming."

"But laughing, too," said Violet, "as if they find it fine sport."

"Who is that man sitting on that bench nearest the water, and looking
just ready to run and help if anybody needs it?" asked Grace.

"Oh, that's Captain Gorham," said Max. "and to run and help if he's
needed is exactly what he's there for. And I presume he always does it;
for they say no bather was ever drowned here."

Ten or fifteen minutes later a little dripping figure left the water,
and came running toward them.

"Why, it's Lulu," Gracie said, as it drew near, calling out to Max that
papa was ready for him.

Max was off like a shot in the direction of the water, and Lulu shouted
to her sister, "Oh Gracie, it's such fun! I wish you had gone, too."

Violet hastened to throw a waterproof cloak about Lulu's shoulders, and
bade her hurry to the house, rub hard with a coarse towel, and put on
dry clothing.

"I will go with you," she added, "if you wish."

"Oh no, thank you, Mamma Vi," Lulu answered, in a lively, happy tone. "I
can do it all quite well myself, and it must be fun for you to sit here
and watch the bathers."

"Well, dear, rub till you are in a glow," Violet said, as the little
girl sped on her way.

"Oh mamma, see, see!" cried Grace, more than half frightened at the
sight; "papa has gone away, way out, and Maxie with him. Oh, aren't you
afraid they will drown?"

"No, Gracie dear; I think we may safely trust your father's prudence
and skill as a swimmer," Violet answered. "Ah, there come Grandma Rose
and my mother; but Zoe and Betty seem to be enjoying it too much to
leave yet."

"Mamma, let's stay here till our people all come out; papa and Maxie,
any way" Grace said, persuasively.

"Yes; we will if you wish," said Violet. "I was just thinking I must go
in to see how baby is doing; but here comes Dinah, bringing her to me."

There was no accident that day, and everybody was enthusiastic in praise
of the bathing. Zoe and Betty would have liked to stay in the water much
longer than their escorts deemed prudent, but yielded to their better
judgment.

The next morning there was a division of their forces: the Dinsmores,
Mrs. Elsie Travilla, Rosie, and Walter, and the Raymonds taking an early
start for Nantucket Town, the others remaining behind to enjoy a
repetition of the surf bath at 'Sconset.

The Nantucket party drove directly to the bathing house of the town, and
the little girls took their first lesson in swimming. They all thought
it "very nice," even Grace soon forgetting her timidity in the quiet
water and with her father to take care of her.

After that they went about the town visiting places of note--the
Athenaeum, the oldest house, dating back more than a hundred years, no
longer habitable, but kept as a relic of olden times, so important that
a visit to it is a part of the regular curriculum of the summer
sojourner in Nantucket; then to the news-room, where they wrote their
names in the "Visitors' Book;" then to the stores to view, among other
things, the antique furniture and old crockery on exhibition there and
for sale.

Many of these stores, situate in wide, handsome streets, were quite
city-like in size and in their display of goods.

Dinner at one of the hotels was next in order; after that a delightful
sail on the harbor, then around Brant Point and over the bar out into
the sea.

Here the boat new before the wind, dancing and rocking on the waves to
the intense delight of the older children; but Gracie was afraid till
her father took her in his arms and held her fast, assuring her they
were in no danger.

As she had unbounded confidence in "papa's" word, and believed he knew
all about the sea, this quieted her fears and made the rest of the sail
as thoroughly enjoyable to her as it was to the others.

The drive back to 'Sconset, with the full moon shining on moor and sea,
was scarcely less delightful. They reached their cottage home full of
enthusiasm over the day's experiences, ready to do ample justice to a
substantial supper, and then for a long delicious night's sleep.




CHAPTER III.

"And I have loved thee, Ocean!"


Captain Raymond, always an early riser, was out on the bluffs before the
sun rose, and in five minutes Max was by his side.

"Ah, my boy, I though you were sound asleep, and would be for an hour
yet," the captain remarked when they had exchanged an affectionate
good-morning.

"No, sir, I made up my mind last night that I'd be out in time to see
the sun rise right out of the sea," Max said; "and there he is, just
peeping above the waves. There, now he's fairly up I and see, papa, what
a golden glory he sheds upon the waters; they are almost too bright to
look at. Isn't it a fine sight?"

"Yes, well worth the sacrifice of an extra morning nap--at least once in
a while."

"You must have seen it a great many times, papa."

"Yes, a great many; but it never loses its attraction for me."

"Oh, look, look, papa!" cried Max; "there's a fisherman going out; he
has his dory down on the beach, and is just watching for the right wave
to launch it. I never can see the difference in the waves--why one is
better than half a dozen others that he lets pass. Can you, sir?"

"No," acknowledged the captain; "but let us watch now and try to make
out his secret."

They did watch closely for ten minutes or more, while wave after wave
came rushing in and broke along the beach, the fisherman's eyes all the
while intent upon them as he stood motionless beside his boat; then
suddenly seeming to see the right one--though to the captain and Max it
did not look different from many of its neglected predecessors--he gave
his dory a vigorous push that sent it out upon the top of that very
wave, leaped into the stern, seized his oars, and with a powerful stroke
sent the boat out beyond the breakers.

"Bravo!" cried Max, clapping his hands and laughing with delight; "see,
papa, how nicely he rides now on the long swells! How I should like to
be able to manage a boat like that. May I learn if I have the chance?"

"Yes," said his father; "I should like to have you a proficient in all
manly accomplishments, only don't be foolhardy and run useless risks. I
want my son to be brave, but not rash; ready to meet danger with
coolness and courage when duty calls, and to have the proper training
to enable him to do so intelligently, but not to rush recklessly into it
to no good end."

"Yes, papa," Max answered; "I mean to try to be just such a man as my
father is; but do you mean that I may take lessons in managing a boat on
the sea, if I can find somebody to teach me?"

"I do; I shall inquire about among the fishermen and see who is capable
and willing for the task. Come, let us go down to the beach; we shall
have abundance of time for a stroll before breakfast."

At that moment Lulu joined them with a gay good-morning to each; she was
in a happy mood. "Oh, what a lovely morning! what a delightful place
this is!" she cried. "Papa, can't we take a walk?"

"Yes, Max and I were about starting for one, and shall be pleased to
have your company."

"I'd like to go to Tom Never's Head, papa," said Max.

"Oh, so should I!" cried Lulu.

"I believe they call the distance from here about two miles," remarked
the captain reflectively; "but such a walk before breakfast in this
bracing air I presume will not damage children as strong and healthy as
these two of mine," regarding them with a fond, fatherly smile. "So come
along, we will try it."

He took Lulu's hand, and the three wended their way southward along
Sunset Heights, greatly enjoying the sight of the ocean, its waves
glittering and dancing in the brilliant sunlight, their booming sound as
they broke along the beach and the exhilarating breeze blowing fresh and
pure from them.

"This is a very dangerous coast," the captain remarked, "especially in
winter, when it is visited by fierce gales; a great many vessels have
been wrecked on Nantucket coast."

"Yes, papa," said Max; "I heard a story the other day of a ship that was
wrecked the night before Christmas, eight or ten years ago, on this
shore. Nobody knew that a ship was near until the next morning, when
pieces of wreck, floating barrels, and dead bodies were cast up on the
beach.

"They found that one man had got to land alive; they knew it because he
was quite a distance from the beach, though entirely dead when they
found him. You see there was just one farmhouse in sight from the scene
of the disaster, and they had alight that night because somebody was
sick; and they supposed the man saw the light and tried to reach it, but
was too much exhausted by fatigue and the dreadful cold, for it seemed
his clothes had all been torn off him by the waves; he was stark naked
when found, and lying on the ground, which showed that he had struggled
hard to get up after falling down upon it.

"I think they said the ship was called the Isaac Newton, was loaded with
barrels of coal-oil, and bound for Holland."

"What a terrible death!" Lulu said with a shudder, and clinging more
tightly to her father's hand; "every one drowned and may be half frozen
for hours before they died. Oh, papa, I wish you didn't belong to the
navy, but lived all the time on land! I am so afraid your ship will be
wrecked some time," she ended with a sob.

"It is not only upon the water that people die by what we call accident,
daughter," the captain answered; "many horrible deaths occur on
land--many to which drowning would in my opinion be far preferable.

"But you must remember that we are under God's care and protection
everywhere, on land and on sea; and that if we are His children no real
evil can befall us. I am very glad you love me, my child, but I would
not have you make yourself unhappy with useless fears on my account.
Trust the Lord for me and all whom you love."

They pressed onward and presently came upon a lovely lakelet near the
beach, as clear as crystal and with bushes with dark green foliage
growing on all sides but that toward the sea.

They stopped for a moment to gaze upon it with surprise and admiration,
then pushed on again till the top of the high bluff known as Tom Never's
Head was reached.

They stood upon its brink and looked off westward and northward over the
heaving, tumbling ocean, as far as the eye could reach to the line where
sea and sky seemed to meet, taking in long draughts of the pure,
invigorating air, and listening to the roar of the breakers below.

"What is that down there?" asked Lulu.

"Part of a wreck, evidently," answered her father; "it must have been
there a long while, it is so deeply imbedded in the sand."

"I wish I knew its story," said Lulu; "I hope everybody wasn't drowned
when it was lost."

"It must have happened years ago, before that life-saving station was
built," remarked Max.

"Life-saving station," repeated Lulu, turning to look in the direction
of his glance; "what's that?"

"Do you not know what that means?" asked her father. "It is high time
you did. Those small houses are built here and there all along our coast
by the general government, for the purpose of accommodating each a band
of surf-men, who are employed by the government to keep a lookout for
vessels in distress, and give them all the aid in their power.

"They are provided with lifeboats, buoys, and other necessary things to
enable them to do so successfully. If it were not too near breakfast
time I should take you over there to see their apparatus; but we must
defer it to some other day, which will be quite as well, for then we may
bring a larger party with us. Now for home," he added, again taking
Lulu's hand; "if your appetites are as keen as mine you will be glad to
get there and to the table."

"Two good hours to bathing-time," remarked Mr. Dinsmore, consulting his
watch as they rose from the breakfast table. "I propose that we utilize
them in a visit to Sankaty lighthouse."

All were well satisfied to do so, and presently they set off, some
driving, others walking, for the distance is not great, and even feeble
folk often find themselves able to take quite long tramps in the bracing
sea air.

Max and Lulu preferred to walk when they learned that their father
intended doing so; then Grace, though extremely fond of driving, begged
leave to join their party, and the captain finally granted her request,
thinking within himself that he could carry her if her strength gave
out.

The little face grew radiant with delight.

"Oh, you are a nice, good papa!" she cried, giving him a hug and kiss,
for he was seated with her upon his knee.

"I am glad you think so," he said, laughingly, as he returned her
caress. "Well, as soon as I have helped your mamma into the carriage we
will start."

They set out presently, Grace holding fast to one of his hands while
Lulu had the other, and tripping gayly along by his side till, passing
out of the village, they struck into the narrow path leading to Sankaty;
then the little maid moved along more soberly, looking far away over the
rolling billows and watching the progress of some vessels in the offing.

They could hear the dash of the waves on the beach below, but could not
see it for the over-hanging cliffs, the path running some yards distant
from their brink.

"I want to see where the waves come up," said Lulu; "there's Max looking
down over the edge; can't we go and look too, papa?"

"Yes, with me along to take care of you," he said, turning from the path
and leading them seaward; "but don't venture alone, the ground might
crumble under your feet and you would have a terrible fall, going down
many feet right into the sea."

They had reached the brink. Grace, clinging tightly to her father's
hand, took one timid peep, then drew back in terror. "Oh, papa, how far
down it is!" she exclaimed. "Oh, let's get away, for fear the ground
will break and let us fall."

"Pooh! Gracie, don't be such a coward," said Lulu. "I shouldn't be
afraid even if papa hadn't hold of our hands."

"I should be afraid for you, Lulu, so venturesome as you are," said the
captain, drawing her a little farther back. "Max, my son, be careful."

"Yes, sir, I will. Papa, do you know how high this bluff is?"

"They say the bank is eighty-five feet high where the lighthouse stands,
and I presume it is about the same here. Now, children, we will walk
on."

Grace's strength held out wonderfully; she insisted she was not at all
tired, even when the end of their walk was reached.

The other division of the party had arrived some minutes before, and
several were already making the ascent to the top of the lighthouse
tower; the rest were scattered, waiting their turn in the neat parlor of
the keeper's snug little home, or wandering over the grassy expanse
between it and the sea.

"There are Grandma Elsie and mamma in the house," cried Grace, catching
sight of them through a window.

"Yes," said her father, "we will go in there and wait our turn with
them," leading the way as he spoke. "Do you want to go up into the
tower, Gracie?"

"Oh no, no, papa!" she cried, "what would be the use? and I am afraid I
might fall."

"What, with your big strong father to hold you fast?" he asked
laughingly, sitting down and drawing her to a seat upon his knee; for
they had entered the parlor.

"It might tire you to hold me so hard; I'm getting so big now," she
answered na�vely, looking up into his face with a loving smile and
stealing an arm about his neck.

"Ah, no danger of that," he laughed. "Why, I believe I could hold even
your mamma or Lulu, and that against their will, without being greatly
exhausted by the exertion.

"My dear," turning to Violet, "shall I have the pleasure of helping you
up to the top of the tower?"

"Thank you, I think I shall not try it to-day," she answered; "they tell
me the steps are very steep and hard to climb."

"Ah, so I suppose, and I think you are wise not to attempt it."

"But I may, mayn't I, papa?" Lulu said. "You know I always like to go
everywhere."

"I fear it will be a hard climb for a girl of your size," he answered
doubtfully.

"Oh, but I want to go, and I don't care if it is a hard climb," she
said coaxingly, coming close to his side and laying her hand on his
shoulder. "Please, papa, do say I may."

"Yes, since you are so desirous," he said, in an indulgent tone.

Max came hurrying in. "We can go up now, papa," he said; "the others
have come down."

Edward and Zoe were just behind the boy. "Oh, you ought all to go up,"
cried the latter; "the view's just splendid."

"Mother," said Edward, "the view is very fine, but there are sixty
steps, each a foot high; a pretty hard climb for a lady, I should think.
Will you go up? may I have the pleasure of helping you?"

"Yes," she answered; "I am quite strong and well, and think the view
will probably pay for the exertion."

They took the lead, the captain following with Lulu, and Max bringing up
the rear.

Having reached the top and viewed the great light (one of the finest on
the coast) from the interior, Elsie stepped outside, and holding fast to
Edward's hand made the entire circuit, enjoying the extended view on all
sides.

Stepping in again, she drew a long breath of relief. "I should not like
to try that in a strong wind," she said, "or at all if I were easily
made dizzy; no, nor in any case without a strong arm to cling to for
safety; for there is plenty of space to fall through between the iron
railing and the masonry."

"I should tremble to see you try it alone, mother," Edward said.

"It is a trifle dangerous," acknowledged the keeper.

"Yet safe enough for a sailor," laughed the captain, stepping out.

"Oh, papa, let me go too, please do!" pleaded Lulu.

"Why should you care to?" asked her father.

"To see the prospect, papa; oh, do let me! there can't be any danger
with you to hold me tight."

For answer he leaned down and helped her up the step, then led her
slowly round, giving her time to take in all the beauties of the scene,
taking care of Max too, who was slowly following.

"I presume you are a little careful whom you allow to make that round?"
the captain observed inquiringly to the keeper when again they stood
inside.

"Yes, and we have never had an accident; but I don't know but there was
a narrow escape from it the other day.

"Of course crowds of people come here almost every day while summer
visitors are on the island, and we can't always judge what kind they
are; but we know it is not an uncommon thing for people standing on the
brink of a precipice or any height to feel an uncontrollable inclination
to throw themselves down it, and therefore we are on the watch.

"Well, the other day I let a strange woman out there, but presently when
I saw her looking down over the edge and heard her mutter to herself,
'Shall I know him when I see him? shall I know him when I see him?' I
pulled her inside in a hurry."

"You thought she was deranged and about to commit suicide by
precipitating herself to the ground?" Edward said inquiringly.

"Exactly, sir," returned the keeper.

All of their number who wished to do so having visited the top of the
tower, our party prepared to leave.

"Are you going to walk back, papa? Mayn't I go with you?" pleaded Grace.

"No, daughter, we must not try your strength too far," he said, lifting
her into the carriage where Grandma Elsie and Violet were already
seated. "I am going on a mile further to Sachacha Pond, ladies," he
remarked; "will you drive there, or directly home?"

"There, if there is time to go and return before the bathing hour," they
answered.

"Quite. I think," he replied, and the carriage moved on, he with Max
and Lulu, and several of the young gentlemen of the company following on
foot.

Sachacha Pond they found to be a pretty sheet of water only slightly
salt, a mile long and three quarters of a mile wide, separated from the
ocean by a long narrow strip of sandy beach. No stream enters it, but it
is the reservoir of the rainfall from the low-lying hills sloping down
to its shores.

Quidnet--a hamlet of perhaps a half dozen houses--stands on its banks.

It is to this pond people go to fish for perch; calling it fresh-water
fishing; here too they "bob" for eels.

Our party had not come to fish this time, yet had an errand aside from a
desire to see the spot--namely, to make arrangements for going sharking
the next day.

Driving and walking on to Quidnet they soon found an old, experienced
mariner who possessed a suitable boat and was well pleased to undertake
the job of carrying their party out to the sharking grounds on the
shoals. He would need a crew of two men, easily to be found among his
neighbors, he said; he would also provide the necessary tackle. The bait
would be perch, which they would catch here in the pond before setting
out for the trip by sea to their destination--about a mile away.

Mr. Dinsmore, his three grandsons, and Bob Johnson were all to be of
the party. Max was longing to go too, but hardly thought he would be
allowed; he was hesitating whether to make the request when his father,
catching his eager, wistful look, suddenly asked, "Would you like to go,
Max?"

"Oh, yes, papa, yes, indeed!" was the eager response, and the boy's
heart bounded with delight at the answer, in a kindly indulgent tone,
"Very well, you may."

Lulu, hearing it, cried out, "Oh, couldn't I go too, papa?"

"You? a little girl?" her father said, turning an astonished look upon
her; "absurd! no, of course you can't."

"I think I might," persisted Lulu; "I've heard that ladies go sometimes,
and I shouldn't be a bit afraid or get in anybody's way."

"You can't go, so let me hear no more about it," the captain answered
decidedly as they turned toward home, the arrangements for the morrow's
expedition being completed.

"Wouldn't Lulu like to ride?" Violet asked, speaking from the carriage
window; "she has already done a good deal of walking to-day."

The carriage stopped, and the captain picked Lulu up and put her in it
without waiting for her to reply, for he saw that she was sulking over
his refusal of her request.

She continued silent during the short drive to the cottage, and
scarcely spoke while hurriedly dressing for the surf-bath.

The contemplated sharking expedition was the chief topic of conversation
at the dinner-table, and it was quite evident that those who were going
looked forward to a good deal of sport.

The frown on Lulu's face grew darker as she listened. Why should not she
have a share in the fun as well as Max? she was sure she was quite as
brave, and not any more likely to be seasick; and papa ought to be as
willing to give enjoyment to his daughter as to his son.

She presently slipped away to the beach and sat down alone to brood over
it, nursing her ill-humor and missing much enjoyment which she might
have had because this--a very doubtful one at the best--was denied her.

Looking round after a while, and seeing her father sitting alone on a
bench at some little distance, she went to him and asked, "Why can't I
go with you to-morrow, papa? I don't see why I can't as well as Max."

"Max is a boy and you are a girl, which makes a vast difference whether
you see it or not," the captain answered. "But I told you to let me hear
no more about it. I am astonished at your assurance in approaching me
again on the subject."

Lulu was silent for a moment, then said complainingly, "And I suppose
I'll not be allowed to take my bath either?"

"I don't forbid you," the captain said kindly, putting his arm about her
and drawing her in between his knees; "provided you promise to keep fast
hold of the rope all the time you are in. With that, and Captain Gorham
keeping close watch, you will not be in much danger, I think; but I
should be much easier in mind--it would give me great satisfaction--if
my little girl would voluntarily relinquish the bath for this one day
that I shall not be here to take care of her, for possibly she might be
swept away, and it would be a terrible thing to me to lose her."

"I 'most wonder you don't say a good thing, papa, I'm so often naughty
and troublesome," she said, suddenly becoming humble and penitent.

"No, it would not be true; your naughtiness often pains me deeply, but
I must continue to love my own child in spite of it all," he responded,
bending down and imprinting a kiss upon her lips.

"And I love you, papa; indeed, indeed I do," she said, with her arm
round his neck, her cheek pressed close to his; "and I won't go in
to-morrow; I'm glad to promise not to if it will make you feel easier
and enjoy your day more."

"Thank you, my dear child," he said. "I have not the least doubt of
your affection."

Edward had spread a rug on the sand just high enough on the beach to be
out of reach of the incoming waves, and Zoe, with a book in her hand,
was half reclining upon it, resting on her elbow and gazing far out over
the waters.

"Well, Mrs. Travilla, for once I find you alone. What has become of your
other half?" said a lively voice at her side.

"Oh, is it you, Betty?" Zoe exclaimed, quickly turning her head and
glancing up at the speaker.

"No one else, I assure you," returned the lively girl, dropping down on
the sand and folding her hands in her lap. "Where did you say Ned is?"

"I didn't say; but he has gone to help mamma down with her shawls and so
forth."

"He's the best of sons as well as of husbands," remarked Betty; "but I'm
glad he's away for a moment just now, as I want a private word with you.
Don't you think it is just a trifle mean and selfish for all our
gentlemen to be going off on a pleasure excursion without so much as
asking if one of us would like to accompany them?"

"I hadn't thought anything about it," replied Zoe.

"Well, think now, if you please; wouldn't you go if you had an
invitation? Don't you want to go?"

"Yes, if it's the proper thing; I'd like to go everywhere with my
husband. I'll ask him about it. Here he comes, mamma with him."

She waited till the two were comfortably settled by her side, then said,
with her most insinuating smile, "I'd like to go sharking, Ned; won't you
take me along to-morrow?"

"Why, what an idea, little wife!" he exclaimed in surprise. "I really
hate to say no to any request of yours, but I do not think it would be
entirely safe for you. We are not going on the comparatively quiet
waters of the harbor, but out into the ocean itself, and that in a
whaleboat, and we may have very rough sailing; besides, it is not at all
impossible that a man-eating shark might get into the boat alive, and,
as I heard an old fisherman say yesterday, 'make ugly work.'"

"Then I don't want to go," Zoe said, "and I'd rather you wouldn't; just
suppose you should get a bite?"

"Oh, no danger!" laughed Edward; "a man is better able to take care of
himself than a woman is of herself."

"Pooh!" exclaimed Betty; "I don't believe any such thing, and I want to
go; I want to be able to say I've done and seen everything other summer
visitors do and see on this island."

"Only a foolish reason, is it not, Betty?" mildly remonstrated her
Cousin Elsie. "But you will have to ask my father's consent, as he is
your guardian."

"No use whatever," remarked Bob, who had joined them a moment before; "I
know uncle well enough to be able to tell you that beforehand. Aren't
you equally sure of the result of such an application, Ned?"

"Yes."

"Besides," pursued Bob, teasingly, "there wouldn't be room in the boat
for a fine lady like my sister Betty, with her flounces and furbelows;
also you'd likely get awfully sick with the rolling and pitching of the
boat, and leaning over the side for the purpose of depositing your
breakfast in the sea, tumble in among the sharks and give them one."

"Oh, you horrid fellow!" she exclaimed, half angrily; "I shouldn't do
anything of the kind; I should wear no furbelows, be no more likely to
an attack of sea-sickness than yourself, and could get out of the way of
a shark quite as nimbly as any one else."

"Well, go and ask uncle," he laughed.

Betty made no move to go; she knew as well as he how Mr. Dinsmore would
treat such a request.

The weather the next morning was all that could be desired for sharking,
and the gentlemen set off in due time, all in fine spirits.

They were absent all day, returning early in the evening quite elated
with their success.

Max had a wonderful tale to tell Lulu and Grace of "papa's" skill, the
number of sand-sharks and the tremendous "blue dog" or man-eater he had
taken. The captain was not half so proud of his success as was his
admiring son.

"I thought all the sharks were man-eaters," said Lulu.

"No, the sand-sharks are not."

"Did everybody catch a man-eater?"

"No; nobody but papa took a full-grown one. Grandpa Dinsmore and Uncle
Edward each caught a baby one, and all of them took big fellows of the
other kind. I suppose they are the most common, and it's a good thing,
because of course they are not nearly so dangerous."

"How many did you catch, Maxie?" asked Grace.

"I? Oh, I helped catch the perch for bait; but I didn't try for sharks,
for of course a boy wouldn't be strong enough to haul such big fellows
in. I tell you the men had a hard tug, especially with the blue-dog.

"The sand-sharks they killed when they'd got 'em close up to the gunwale
by pounding them on the nose with a club--a good many hard whacks it
took, too; but the blue-dog had to be stabbed with a lance; and I
should think it took considerable courage and skill to do it, with such
a big, strong, wicked-looking fellow. You just ought to have seen how he
rolled over and over in the water and lashed it into a foam with his
tail, how angry his eyes looked, and how he showed his sharp white
teeth. I thought once he'd be right in among us the next minute, but he
didn't; they got the lance down his throat just in time to put a stop to
that."

"Oh, I'm so glad he didn't!" Grace said, drawing a long breath. "Do they
eat sharks, Maxie?"

"No, indeed; who'd want to eat a fish that maybe had grown fat on human
flesh?"

"What do they kill them for, then?"

"Oh, to rid the seas of them, I suppose, and because there is a valuable
oil in their livers. We saw our fellows towed ashore and cut open and
their livers taken out."




CHAPTER IV.

"There is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must
be saved."


It was down on the beach Max had been telling his story; the evening was
beautiful, warm enough to make the breeze from the sea extremely
enjoyable, and the whole family party were gathered there, some sitting
upon the benches or camp-chairs, others on rugs and shawls spread upon
the sand.

Max seemed to have finished what he had to say about the day's exploits,
and Gracie rose and went to her father's side.

He drew her to his knee with a slight caress. "What has my little girl
been doing all day?"

"Playing in the sand most of the time, papa. I'm so glad those horrid
sharks didn't get a chance to bite you or anybody to-day. Such big,
dreadful-looking creatures Maxie says they were."

"Not half so large as some I have seen in other parts of the world."

"Oh, papa, will you tell us about them? Shall I call Max and Lulu to
hear it?"

"Yes; if they wish to come, they may."

There was scarcely anything the children liked better than to hear the
captain tell of his experiences at sea, and in another moment his own
three. Rosie, Walter, and several of the older people were gathered
around him, expecting quite a treat.

"Quite an audience," he remarked, "and I'm afraid I shall disappoint you
all, for I have no yarn to spin, only a few items of information to give
in regard to other varieties of sharks than are to be found on this
coast.

"The white shark, found in the Mediterranean and the seas of many of the
warmer parts of the world, is the largest and the most feared of any of
the monsters of the deep. One has been caught which was thirty-seven
feet long. It has a hard skin, is grayish-brown above and whitish on the
under side. It has a large head and a big wide mouth armed with a
terrible apparatus of teeth--six rows in the upper jaw, and four in the
lower."

"Did you ever see one, papa?" asked Grace, shuddering.

"Yes, many a one. They will often follow a ship to feed on any animal
matter that may be thrown or fall overboard, and have not unfrequently
followed mine, to the no small disturbance of the sailors, who have a
superstitious belief that it augurs a death on board during the voyage."

"Do you believe it, captain?" queried little Walter.

"No, my boy, certainly not; how should a fish know what is about to
happen? Do you think God would give them a knowledge of the future which
He conceals from men? No, it is a very foolish idea which only an
ignorant, superstitious person could for a moment entertain. Sharks
follow the ships simply because of what is occasionally thrown into the
water. They are voracious creatures, and sometimes swallow articles
which even their stomachs cannot digest. A lady's work-box was found in
one, and the papers of a slave-ship in another."

"Why, how could he get them?" asked Walter.

"They had been thrown overboard," said the captain.

"Do those big sharks bite people?" pursued the child.

"Yes, indeed; they will not only bite off an arm or leg when an
opportunity offers, but have been known to swallow a man whole."

"A worse fate than that of the prophet Jonah," remarked Betty. "Do the
sailors ever attempt to catch them, captain?"

"Sometimes; using a piece of meat as bait, putting it on a very large
hook attached to a chain; for a shark's teeth find no difficulty in
going through a rope. But when they have hooked him and hauled him on
board they have need to be very careful to keep out of reach of both his
teeth and his tail; they usually rid themselves of danger from the
latter by a sailor springing forward and cutting it above the fin with a
hatchet.

"In the South Sea Islands they have a curious way of catching sharks by
setting a log of wood afloat with a rope attached, a noose at the end of
it; the sharks gather round the log, apparently out of curiosity, and
one or another is apt soon to get his head into the noose, and is
finally wearied out by the log."

"I think that's a good plan," said Grace, "because it doesn't put
anybody in danger of being bitten."

No one spoke again for a moment, then the silence was broken by the
sweet voice of Mrs. Elsie Travilla: "To-morrow is Sunday; does any one
know whether any service will be held here?"

"Yes," replied Mr. Dinsmore; "there will be preaching in the parlors of
one of the hotels, and I move that we attend in a body."

The motion was seconded and carried, and when the time came nearly every
one went. The service occupied an hour; after that almost everybody
sought the beach; but though some went into the surf--doubtless looking
upon it as a hygienic measure, therefore lawful even on the Lord's
day--there was not the usual boisterous fun and frolic.

Harold, by some manoeuvring, got his mother to himself for a time,
making a comfortable seat for her in the sand, and shading her from the
sun with an umbrella.

"Mamma," he said, "I want a good talk with you; there are some
questions, quite suitable for Sunday, that I want to ask. And see,"
holding them up to view, "I have brought my Bible and a small
concordance with me, for I know you always refer to the Law and to the
Testimony in deciding matters of faith and practice."

"Yes," she said, "God's Word is the only infallible rule of faith and
practice. All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is
profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in
righteousness!"

"Yes, mamma, I have the reference here; Second Timothy, third chapter,
and sixteenth verse. And should not the next verse, 'That the man of God
may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works,' stir us up to
much careful study of the Bible?"

"Certainly, my dear boy; and, oh what cause for gratitude that we have
an infallible instructor and guide! But what did you want to ask me?"

"A question that was put to me by one of our fellows at college, and
which I was not prepared to answer. The substance of it was this: 'If
one who has lived for years in the service of God should be suddenly cut
off while committing some sin, would he not be saved, because of his
former good works?'"

"Is any son or daughter of Adam saved by good works?" she asked, with a
look and tone of surprise.

"No, mother, certainly not; how strange that I did not think of
answering him with that query. But he maintained that God was too just
to overlook--make no account of--years of holy living because of perhaps
a momentary fall into sin."

"We have nothing to hope from God's justice," she replied, "for it
wholly condemns us. 'There is none righteous, no, not one.... Therefore
by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in His sight.'

"But your friend's question is very plainly answered by the prophet
Ezekiel," opening her Bible as she spoke. "Here it is, in the eighteenth
chapter, twenty-fourth verse.

"'But when the righteous turneth away from his righteousness and
committeth iniquity, and doeth according to all the abominations that
the wicked man doeth, shall he live? All his righteousness that he hath
done shall not be mentioned: in his trespass that he hath trespassed,
and in his sin that he hath sinned, in them shall he die.'"

"Nothing could be plainer," Harold said. "I shall refer my friend to
that passage for his answer, and also remind him that no one can be
saved by works.

"Now, mamma, there is something else. I have become acquainted with a
young Jew who interests me greatly. He is gentlemanly, refined,
educated, very intelligent and devout, studying the Hebrew Scriptures
constantly, and looking for a Saviour yet to come.

"I have felt so sorry for him that I could not refrain from talking to
him of Jesus of Nazareth, and trying to convince him that He was and is
the true Messiah."

Elsie looked deeply interested. "And what was the result of your
efforts?" she asked.

"I have not succeeded in convincing him yet, mamma, but I think I have
raised doubts in his mind. I have called his attention to the prophecies
in his own Hebrew Scriptures in regard to both the character of the
Messiah and the time of His appearing, and shown him how exactly they
were all fulfilled in our Saviour. I think he cannot help seeing that it
is so, yet tries hard to shut his eyes to the truth.

"He tells me he believes Jesus was a good man and a great prophet, but
not the Messiah; only a human creature. To that I answer, 'He claimed
to be God, saying, "I and My Father are One;" "Verily, verily, I say
unto you, before Abraham was I am;" and allowed himself to be worshipped
as God; therefore either He was God or He was a wretched impostor, not
even a good man.'

"But, mamma, I have been asked by another, a professed Christian, 'Why
do you trouble yourself about the belief of a devout Jew? he is not
seeking salvation by works, but by faith; then is he not safe, even
though he looks for a Saviour yet to come?' How should you answer that
question, mamma?"

"With the eleventh and twelfth verses of the fourth chapter of Acts:
'This is the stone which was set at naught of you builders, which is
become the head of the corner. Neither is there salvation in any other;
for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we
must be saved.'

"That name is the name of Jesus of Nazareth, the crucified One. He is
the only Saviour. We speak--the Bible speaks of being saved by faith,
but faith is only the hand with which we lay hold on Christ.

"'A Saviour yet to come?' There is none; and will faith in a myth save
the soul? No; nor in any other than Him who is the Door, the Way, the
Truth, the Life.

"'He is mighty to save,' and He alone; He Himself said, 'No man cometh
unto the Father, but by Me.'

"And is it not for the very sin of rejecting their true Messiah, killing
Him and imprecating His blood upon them and on their children, that they
have been scattered among the nations and have become a hissing and a
byword to all people?"

"True, mamma, and yet are they not still God's own chosen people? Are
there not promises of their future restoration?"

"Yes, many, in both the Old Testament and the New. Zechariah tells us,
'They shall look upon Me whom they have pierced, and they shall mourn
for Him as one mourneth for his only son, and shall be in bitterness for
him, as one that is in bitterness for his first-born;' and Paul speaks of
a time when the veil that is upon their hearts shall be taken away, and
it shall turn to the Lord.

"Let me read you the first five verses of the sixty-second chapter of
Isaiah--they are so beautiful.

"'For Zion's sake will I not hold My peace, and for Jerusalem's sake I
will not rest, until the righteousness thereof go forth as brightness,
and the salvation thereof as a lamp that burneth.

"'And the Gentiles shall see thy righteousness, and all kings thy
glory; and thou shalt be called by a new name which the mouth of the
Lord shall name.

"'Thou shalt also be a crown of glory in the hand of the Lord, and a
royal diadem in the hand of thy God.

"'Thou shalt no more be termed Forsaken; neither shall thy land any more
be termed Desolate: but thou shalt be called Hephzibah, and thy land
Beulah: for the Lord delighted in thee, and thy land shall be married.

"'For as a young man marrieth a virgin, so shall thy sons marry thee:
and as the bridegroom rejoiceth over the bride, so shall thy God rejoice
over thee.'"

Mr. and Mrs. Dinsmore sat together not many paces distant, each with a
book; but hers was half closed while she gazed out over the sea.

"I am charmed with the quiet of this place," she remarked presently;
"never a scream of a locomotive to break it, no pavements to echo to the
footsteps of the passer-by, no sound of factory or mill, or rumble of
wheels, scarcely anything to be heard, even on week-days, but the
thunder of the surf and occasionally a human voice."

"Except the blast of Captain Baxter's tin horn announcing his arrival
with the mail, or warning you that he will be off for Nantucket in
precisely five minutes, so that if you have letters or errands for him
you must make all haste to hand them over," Mr. Dinsmore said, with a
smile.

"Ah, yes," she assented; "but with all that, is it not the quietest
place you ever were in?"

"I think it is; there is a delightful Sabbath stillness to-day. I cannot
say that I should desire to pass my life here, but a sojourn of some
weeks is a very pleasant and restful variety."

"I find it so," said his wife, "and feel a strong inclination to be down
here, close by the waves, almost all the time. If agreeable to the rest
of our party, let us pass the evening here in singing hymns."

"A very good suggestion," he responded, and Elsie and the others being
of the same opinion, it was duly carried out.




CHAPTER V.

"Sudden they see from midst of all the main
The surging waters like a mountain rise,
And the great sea, puff'd up with proud disdain
To swell above the measure of his guise,
As threatening to devour all that his power despise."

--_Spenser_.


What with bathing, driving, and wandering about on foot over the lovely
moors, time flew fast to our 'Sconseters.

It was their purpose to visit every point of interest on the island,
and to try all its typical amusements. They made frequent visits to
Nantucket Town, particularly that the children might take their swimming
lessons in the quiet water of its harbor; also repeated such drives and
rambles as they found exceptionably enjoyable.

Max wanted to try camping out for a few weeks in company with Harold and
Herbert Travilla and Bob Johnson, but preferred to wait until his father
should leave them, not feeling willing to miss the rare pleasure of his
society. And the other lads, quite fond of the captain themselves, did
not object to waiting.

In the mean time they went blue-fishing (trying it by both accepted
modes--the "heave and haul" from a rowboat or at anchor, and trolling
from a yacht under full sail), hunting, eel-bobbing, and perch-fishing.

The ladies sometimes went with them on their fishing excursions; Zoe and
Betty oftener than any of the others. Lulu went, too, whenever she was
permitted, which was usually when her father made one of the party.

"We haven't been on a 'squantum' yet," remarked Betty, one evening,
addressing the company in general; "suppose we try that to-morrow."

"Suppose you first tell us what a 'squantum' is," said Mrs. Dinsmore.

"Oh, Aunt Rose, don't you know that that is the Nantucket name for a
picnic?"

"I acknowledge my ignorance," laughed the older lady; "I did not know it
till this moment."

"Well, auntie, it's one of those typical things that every conscientious
summer visitor here feels called upon to do as a regular part of the
Nantucket curriculum. How many of us are agreed to go?" glancing about
from one to another.

Not a dissenting voice was raised, and Betty proceeded to unfold her
plans. Vehicles sufficient for the transportation of the whole party
were to be provided, baskets of provisions also; they would take an
early start, drive to some pleasant spot near the beach or one of the
ponds, and make a day of it--sailing, or rather rowing about the pond,
fishing in it, cooking and eating what they caught (fish were said to be
so delicious just out of the water and cooked over the coals in the open
air), and lounging on the grass, drinking in at the same time the sweet,
pure air and the beauties of nature as seen upon Nantucket moors and
hills, and in glimpses of the surrounding sea.

"Really, Betty, you grow quite eloquent," laughed her brother;
"Nantucket has inspired you."

"I think it sounds ever so nice," said little Grace. "Won't you go and
take us, papa?"

"Yes, if Mamma Vi will go along," he answered, with an affectionate look
at his young wife; "we can't go without her, can we, Gracie?"

"Oh, no, indeed! but you will go, mamma, won't you?"

"If your papa chooses to take me," Violet said, in a sprightly tone. "I
think it would be very pleasant, but I cannot either go or stay unless
he does; for I am quite resolved to spend every one of the few days he
will be here, close at his side."

"And as all the rest of us desire the pleasure of his company," said
her mother, "his decision must guide ours."

"There, now, captain," cried Betty, "you see it all rests with you; so
please say yes, and let us begin our preparations."

"Yes, Miss Betty; I certainly cannot be so gallant as to refuse such a
request from such a quarter, especially when I see that all interested
in the decision hope I will not."

That settled the matter. Preparations were at once set on foot: the
young men started in search of the necessary conveyances, the ladies
ordered the provisions, inquiries were made in regard to different
localities, and a spot on the banks of Sachacha Pond, where stood a
small deserted old house, was selected as their objective point.

They started directly after breakfast, and had a delightful drive over
the moors and fenceless fields, around the hills and tiny emerald lakes
bordered with beautiful wild shrubbery, bright with golden rod, wild
roses, and field lilies. Here and there among the heather grew creeping
mealberry vines, with bright red fruit-like beads, and huckleberry
bushes that tempted our pleasure-seekers to alight again and again to
gather and eat of their fruit.

Everybody was in most amiable mood, and the male members of the party
indulgently assisted the ladies, and lifted the children in and out
that they might gather floral treasures for themselves, or alighted to
gather for them again and again.

At length they reached their destination, left their conveyances, spread
an awning above the green grass that grew luxuriantly about the old
house, deposited their baskets of provisions and extra wraps underneath
it, put the horses into a barn near at hand, and strolled down to the
pond.

A whaleboat, large enough to hold the entire company, was presently
hired; all embarked; it moved slowly out into the lake; all who cared to
fish were supplied with tackle and bait, and the sport began.

Elsie, Violet, and Grace declined to take part in it, but Zoe, Betty,
and Lulu were very eager and excited, sending forth shouts of triumph or
of merriment as they drew one victim after another from the water; for
the fish seemed eager to take the bait, and were caught in such numbers
that soon the word was given that quite enough were now on hand, and the
boat was headed for the shore.

A fire was made in the sand, and while some broiled the fish and made
coffee, others spread a snowy cloth upon the grass, and placed on it
bread and butter, cold biscuits, sandwiches, pickles, cakes, jellies,
canned fruits, and other delicacies.

It was a feast fit for a king, and all the more enjoyable that the sea
air and pleasant exercise had sharpened the appetites of the fortunate
partakers.

Then, the meal disposed of, how deliciously restful it was to lounge
upon the grass, chatting, singing, or silently musing with the sweet,
bracing air all about them, the pretty sheet of still water almost at
their feet, while away beyond it and the dividing strip of sand the
ocean waves tossed and rolled, showing here and there a white, slowly
moving sail.

So thoroughly did they enjoy it all that they lingered till the sun,
nearing the western horizon, reminded them that the day was waning.

The drive home was not the least enjoyable part of the day. They took it
in leisurely fashion, by a different route from the one they had taken
in the morning, and with frequent haltings to gather berries, mosses,
lichens, grasses, and strange beautiful flowers; or to gaze with
delighted eyes upon the bare brown hills purpling in the light of the
setting sun, and the rapidly darkening vales; Sankaty lighthouse, with
the sea rolling beyond, on the one hand, and on the other the quieter
waters of the harbor, with the white houses and spires of Nantucket Town
half encircling it.

They had enjoyed their "squantum," marred by no mishap, no untoward
event, so much that it was unanimously agreed to repeat the experiment,
merely substituting some other spot for the one visited that day.

But their next excursion was to Wanwinet, situate on a narrow neck of
land that, jutting out into the sea, forms the head of the harbor;
Nantucket Town standing at the opposite end, some half dozen miles away.

Summer visitors to the latter place usually go to Wanwinet by boat, up
the harbor, taking their choice between a sailboat and a tiny steamer
which plies regularly back and forth during the season; but our 'Sconset
party drove across the moors, sometimes losing their way among the
hills, dales, and ponds, but rather enjoying that as a prolongation of
the pleasure of the drive, and spite of the detention reached their
destination in good season to partake of the dinner of all obtainable
luxuries of the sea, served up in every possible form, which is usually
considered the roam object of a trip to Wanwinet.

They found the dinner--served in a large open pavilion, whence they
might gaze out over the dancing, glittering waves of the harbor, and
watch the white sails come and go, while eating--quite as good as they
had been led to expect.

After dinner they wandered along the beach, picking up shells and any
curious things they could find--now on the Atlantic side, now on the
shore of the harbor.

Then a boat was chartered for a sail of a couple of hours, and then
followed the drive home to 'Sconset by a different course from that of
the morning, and varied by the gradually fading light of the setting sun
and succeeding twilight casting weird shadows here and there among the
hills and vales.

The captain predicted a storm for the following day, and though the
others could see no sign of its approach, it was upon them before they
rose the next morning, raining heavily, while the wind blew a gale.

There was no getting out for sitting on the beach, bathing, or rambling
about, and they were at close quarters in the cottages.

They whiled away the time with books, games, and conversation.

They were speaking of the residents of the island--their correct speech,
intelligence, uprightness, and honesty.

"I wonder if there was ever a crime committed here?" Elsie said, half
inquiringly. "And if there is a jail on the island?"

"Yes, mother," Edward answered; "there is a jail, but so little use for
it that they think it hardly worth while to keep it in decent repair. I
heard that a man was once put in for petty theft, and that after being
there a few days he sent word to the authorities that if they didn't
repair it so that the sheep couldn't break in on him, he wouldn't stay."

There was a general laugh; then Edward resumed: "There has been one
murder on the island, as I have been informed. A mulatto woman was the
criminal, a white woman the victim, the motive revenge; the colored
woman was in debt to the white one, who kept a little store, and,
enraged at repeated duns, went to her house and beat her over the head
with some heavy weapon--I think I was told a whale's tooth.

"The victim lingered for some little time, but eventually died of her
wounds, and the other was tried for murder.

"It is said the sheriff was extremely uneasy lest she should be found
guilty of murder in the first degree, and he should have the unpleasant
job of hanging her; but the verdict was manslaughter, the sentence
imprisonment for life.

"So she was consigned to jail, but very soon allowed to go out
occasionally to do a day's work."

"Oh, Uncle Edward, is she alive now?" Gracie asked, with a look of
alarm.

"Yes, I am told she is disabled by disease, and lives in the poorhouse.
But you need not be frightened, little girlie; she is not at all likely
to come to 'Sconset, and if she does we will take good care that she is
not allowed to harm you."

"And I don't suppose she'd want to either, unless we had done something
to make her angry," said Lulu.

"But we are going to Nantucket Town to stay a while when we leave
'Sconset," remarked Grace uneasily.

"But that woman will not come near you, daughter; you need, not have the
least fear of it," the captain said, drawing his little girl to his knee
with a tender caress.

"Ah," said Mr. Dinsmore, "I heard the other day of a curiosity at
Nantucket which we must try to see while there. I think the story
connected with it will particularly interest you ladies and the little
girls."

"Oh, grandpa, tell it!" cried Rosie; "please do; a story is just what we
want this dull day."

The others joined in the request, and Mr. Dinsmore kindly complied, all
gathering closely about him, anxious to catch every word.

"The story is this: Nearly a hundred years ago there lived in Nantucket
a sea-captain named Coffin, who had a little daughter of whom he was
very fond."

Gracie glanced up smilingly into her father's face and nestled closer to
him.

"Just as I am of mine," said his answering look and smile as he drew
her closer still.

But Mr. Dinsmore's story was going on.

"It was Captain Coffin's custom to bring home some very desirable gift
to his little girl whenever he returned from a voyage. At one time, when
about to sail for the other side of the Atlantic, he said to her that he
was determined on this voyage to find and bring home to her something
that no other little girl ever had or ever could have."

"Oh, grandpa, what could that be?" exclaimed little Walter.

"Wait a moment and you shall hear," was the reply.

"What the captain brought on coming back was a wax baby, a very
life-like representation of an infant six months old. He said it was a
wax cast of the Dauphin of France, that poor unfortunate son of Louis
XVI. and Marie Antoinette; that he had found it in a convent, and paid
for it a sum of money so enormous that he would never tell any one, not
even his wife, how large it was."

"But it isn't in existence now, at this late day, surely?" Mrs. Dinsmore
remarked inquiringly, as her husband paused in his narrative.

"It is claimed that it is by those who have such a thing in possession,
and I presume they tell the truth. It has always been preserved with
extreme care as a great curiosity.

"The little girl to whom it was given by her father lived to grow up,
but has been dead many years. Shortly before her death she gave it to a
friend, and it has been in that family for over forty years."

"And is it on exhibition, papa?" asked Elsie.

"Only to such as are fortunate enough to get an introduction to the lady
owner through some friend of hers; so I understand; but photographs have
been taken and are for sale in the stores."

"Oh, I hope we will get to see it!" exclaimed Lulu eagerly.

"As far as I'm concerned, I'm bound to manage it somehow," said Betty.

"How much I should like to know what was really the true story of that
poor unfortunate child," said Elsie, reflectively, and sighing as she
spoke.

"It--like the story of the Man in the Iron Mask--is a mystery that will
never be satisfactorily cleared up until the Judgment Day," remarked her
father.

"Oh, do tell us about it," the children cried in eager chorus.

"All of you older ones have certainly some knowledge of the French
Revolution, in which Louis XVI. and his beautiful queen lost their
lives?" Mr. Dinsmore said, glancing about upon his grandchildren; "and
have not forgotten that two children survived them--one sometimes called
Louis XVII., as his father's lawful successor to the throne, and a
daughter older than the boy.

"These children remained in the hands of their cruel foes for some time
after the beheading of their royal parents. The girl was finally
restored to her mother's relatives, the royal family of Austria; but the
boy, who was most inhumanly treated by his jailer, was supposed to have
died in consequence of that brutal abuse, having first been reduced by
it to a state of extreme bodily and mental weakness.

"That story (of the death of the poor little dauphin, I mean, not
of the cruel treatment to which he was subjected) has, however, been
contradicted by another; and I suppose it will never be made certain in
this world which was the true account.

"The dauphin was born in 1785, his parents were beheaded in 1793; so
that he must have been about eight years old at the time of their death.

"In 1795 a French man and woman, directly from France, appeared in
Albany, New York, having in charge a girl and boy; the latter about
nine years old, and feeble in body and mind.

"The woman had also a number of articles of dress which she said had
belonged to Marie Antoinette, who had given them to her on the scaffold.

"That same year two Frenchmen came to Ticonderoga, visited the Indians
in that vicinity, and placed with them such a boy as the one seen at
Albany--of the same age, condition of mind and body, etc.

"He was adopted by an Iroquois chief named Williams, and given the name
of Eleazer Williams.

"He gradually recovered his health, and at length the shock of a sudden
fall into the lake so far restored his memory that he recollected some
scenes in his early life in the palaces of France. One thing he recalled
was being with a richly dressed lady whom he addressed as 'mamma.'

"Some time later--I cannot now recall the exact date--a Frenchman died
in New Orleans (Beranger was his name), who confessed on his death-bed
that he had brought the dauphin to this country and placed him with the
Indians of Northern New York. He stated that he had taken an oath of
secrecy, for the protection of the lad, but could not die without
confessing the truth."

"I'm inclined to think the story of the dauphin's death in France was
not true," remarked Betty.

"Didn't Beranger's confession arouse inquiry, grandpa?" asked Zoe. "And
did Eleazer Williams hear of it?"

"I think I may say yes to both your queries," Mr. Dinsmore answered.
"Eleazer's story was published in the newspapers some years ago, and I
remember he was spoken of as a very good Christian man, a missionary
among the Indians; it was brought out in book form also under the title
'The Lost Prince: A Life of Eleazer Williams.'

"Eleazer himself stated that in 1848 he had an interview, on board a
steamer from Buffalo, with the Prince de Joinville, who then told him he
was the son of Louis XVI. and Marie Antoinette, and tried to induce him
to sign away his right to the throne of France, and that he refused to
do so.

"In his published statement he said he thought the Prince would not deny
having made that communication. But the Prince did deny that, though he
acknowledged that the interview had taken place."

"Did Eleazer ever try to get the throne, grandpa?" asked Max.

"No, he never urged his claim; and I dare say was happier as an obscure
Indian missionary than he would have been as King of France. He died at
the age of seventy."

"Poor Marie Antoinette!" sighed Elsie; "I never could read her story
without tears, and the very thought of her sorrows and sufferings makes
my heart ache."

"I don't think I ever read it," said Zoe, "though I have a general idea
what it was."

"We have Abbott's life of her at Ion," said Elsie. "I'll get it for you
when we go home."

Harold stepped to the window. "It is raining very little now, if at
all," he said, "and the sea must be in a fine rage; let us go and have a
look at it"

"Oh, yes, let's go!" cried Betty, springing to her feet; "but I'm afraid
we've missed the finest of it, for the wind isn't blowing half so hard
as it was an hour ago."

"Don't be discouraged," said Captain Raymond, sportively; "the waves are
often higher than ever after the wind has subsided."

"Oh, papa, may I go too?" Grace said, in a pleading tone.

"Yes; if you put on your waterproof cloak and overshoes it will not hurt
you to be out for a short time," answered the indulgent father. "Lulu,
don't go without yours."

All were eager for the sight; there was a moment of hasty preparation,
and they trooped out and stood upon the edge of the high bank at the
back of their cottages gazing upon the sea in its, to most of them, new
and terrible aspect; from shore to horizon it was one mass of seething,
boiling waters; far out in the distance the huge waves reared their
great foam-crested fronts and rushed furiously toward the shore, rapidly
chasing each other in till with a tremendous crash and roar they broke
upon the beach, sending up showers of spray, and depositing great flakes
of foam which the wind sent scudding over the sand; and each, as it
retreated, was instantly followed by another and another in unbroken,
endless succession.

Half a mile or more south of 'Sconset there is a shoal (locally called
"the rips") where wind and tide occasionally, coming in opposition,
cause a fierce battle of the waves, a sight well worth a good deal of
exertion to behold.

"Wind and tide are having it out on the rips," the captain presently
remarked. "Let us go down to the beach and get the best view we can of
the conflict."

"Papa, may we go too?" asked Lulu, as the older people hastily made a
move toward the stairway that led to the beach; "oh, do please let us!"

Grace did not speak, but her eyes lifted to his, pleaded as earnestly as
Lulu's tongue. He hesitated for an instant, then stooped, took Grace in
his arms, and saying to Lulu, "Yes, come along; it is too grand a sight
for me to let you miss it," hurried after the others.

Violet had not come out with the rest, her attention being taken up
with her babe just at that time, and he would give her the sight
afterward on taking the children in.

On they went over the wet sands--Mr. Dinsmore and his wife, Edward and
his, Betty holding on to Harold's arm, Rose and Walter helped along by
Herbert and Bob.

To Max Raymond's great content and a little to the discomfiture of her
sons, who so delighted in waiting upon and in every way caring for her,
Elsie had chosen him for her companion and escort, and with Lulu they
hastened after the others and just ahead of the captain and Grace, who
brought up the rear.

The thunder of the surf prevented any attempt at conversation, but now
and then there was a little scream, ending with a shout of laughter from
one or another of the feminine part of the procession, as they were
overtaken by the edge of a wave and their shoes filled with the foam,
their skirts wetted by it. Not a very serious matter, as all had learned
ere this, as salt water does not cause one to take cold.

Arrived at the spot from where the very best view of the conflict could
be had, they stood long gazing upon it, awestruck and fascinated by the
terrific grandeur of the scene. I can best describe it in the words of a
fellow-author far more gifted in that line than I.

"Yonder comes shoreward a great wave, towering above all its brethren.
Onward it comes, swift as a race-horse, graceful as a great ship,
bearing right down upon us. It strikes 'The Rips,' and is there itself
struck by a wave approaching from another direction. The two converge in
their advance, and are dashed together--embrace each other like two
angry giants, each striving to mount upon the shoulder of the other and
crush its antagonist with its ponderous bulk. Swift as thought they
mount higher and higher, in fierce, mad struggle, until their force is
expended; their tops quiver, tremble, and burst into one great mass of
white, gleaming foam; and the whole body of the united wave, with a
mighty bound, hurls itself upon the shore and is broken into a flood of
seething waters--crushed to death in its own fury.

"All over the shoal the waves leap up in pinnacles, in volcanic points,
sharp as stalagmites, and in this form run hither and yon in all
possible directions, colliding with and crashing against others of equal
fury and greatness--a very carnival of wild and drunken waves; the
waters hurled upward in huge masses of white. Sometimes they unite more
gently, and together sweep grandly and gracefully along parallel with
the shore; and the cavernous hollows stretch out from the shore so that
you look into the trough of the sea and realize what a terrible depth
it is. The roar, meanwhile, is horrible. You are stunned by it as by the
roar of a great waterfall. You see a wave of unusual magnitude rolling
in from far beyond the wild revelry of waters on 'The Rips.' It leaps
into the arena as if fresh and eager for the fray, clutches another
Bacchanal like itself, and the two towering floods rush swiftly toward
the shore. Instinctively you run backward to escape what seems an
impending destruction. Very likely a sheet of foam is dashed all around
you, shoe-deep, but you are safe--only the foam hisses away in impotent
rage. The sea has its bounds; 'hitherto shalt thou come, but no
farther.

[Footnote A: A. Judd Northrup, in "Sconset Cottage Life."]




CHAPTER VI.

  She is peevish, sullen, froward,
Proud, disobedient, stubborn, lacking duty;
Neither regarding that she is my child,
Nor fearing me as If I were her father.

--_Shakespeare_.


A day or two of bright, breezy weather had succeeded the storm, and
another "squantum" had been arranged for; it was to be a more
pretentious affair than the former one, other summer visitors uniting
with our party; and a different spot had been selected for it.

By Violet's direction the maid had laid out, the night before, the
dresses the two little girls were to wear to the picnic, and they
appeared at the breakfast-table already attired in them; for the start
was to be made shortly after the conclusion of the meal.

The material of the dresses was fine, they were neatly fitting and
prettily trimmed, but rather dark in color and with high necks and long
sleeves; altogether suitable for the occasion, and far from unbecoming;
indeed, as the captain glanced at the two neat little figures, seated
one on each side of him, he felt the risings of fatherly pride in their
attractiveness of appearance.

And even exacting, discontented Lulu was well enough pleased with her
mamma's choice for her till, upon leaving the table and running out for
a moment into the street to see if the carriages were in sight, she came
upon a girl about her own age, who was to be of the company, very gayly
apparelled in thin white tarletan and pink ribbons,

"Good-morning, Sadie," said Lulu. "What a nice day for the 'squantum,'
isn't it?"

"Yes; and it's most time to start, and you're not dressed yet, are you?"
glancing a trifle scornfully from her own gay plumage to Lulu's plainer
attire.

The latter flushed hotly but made no reply. "I don't see anything of the
carriages yet," was all she said; then darting into the cottage occupied
by their family, she rushed to her trunk, and throwing it open, hastily
took from it a white muslin, coral ribbons and sash, and with headlong
speed tore off her plain colored dress and arrayed herself in them.

She would not have had time but for an unexpected delay in the arrival
of the carriage which was to convey her parents, brother and sister and
herself to the "squantum" ground.

As it was, she came rushing out at almost the last moment, just as the
captain was handing his wife into the vehicle.

Max met her before she had reached the outer door. "Lu, Mamma Vi says
you will need a wrap before we get back; probably even going, and you're
to bring one along."

"I sha'n't need any such thing! and I'm not going to be bothered with
it!" cried Lulu, in a tone of angry impatience, hurrying on toward the
entrance as she spoke.

"Whew! what have you been doing to yourself?" exclaimed Max, suddenly
noting the change of attire, while Grace, standing in the doorway,
turned toward them with a simultaneous exclamation, "Why, Lulu--" then
broke off, lost in astonishment at her sister's audacity.

"Hush, both of you! can't you keep quiet?" snapped Lulu, turning from
one to the other; then as her father's tall form darkened the doorway,
and a glance up into his face showed her that it was very grave and
stern, she shrank back abashed, frightened by the sudden conviction that
he had overheard her impertinent reply to her mamma's message, and
perhaps noticed the change in her dress.

He regarded her for a moment in silence, while she hung her head in
shame and affright; then he spoke in tones of grave displeasure, "You
will stay at home to-day, Lulu; we have no room for disrespectful,
disobedient children--"

"Papa," she interrupted, half pleadingly, half angrily, "I haven't been
disobedient or disrespectful to you."

"It is quite the same," he said; "I require you to be obedient and
respectful to your mamma; and impertinence to her is something I will by
no means allow or fail to punish whenever I know of it. Sorry as I am to
deprive you of an anticipated pleasure, I repeat that you must stay at
home; and go immediately to your room and resume the dress she directed
you to wear to-day."

So saying he took Grace's hand and led her to the carriage, Max
following after one regretful look at Lulu's sorely disappointed face.

Grace, clinging about her father's neck as he lifted her up, pleaded for
her sister. "Oh, papa, do please let her go; she hasn't been naughty for
a long while, and I'm sure she's sorry and will be good."

"Hush, hush, darling!" he said, wiping the tears from her eyes, then
placing her by Violet's side.

"What is wrong?" inquired the latter with concern; "is Gracie not
feeling well?"

"Never mind, my love," the captain answered, assuming a cheerful tone;
"there is nothing wrong except that Lulu has displeased me, and I have
told her she cannot go with us to-day."

"Oh, I am sorry!" Violet said, looking really pained; "we shall all miss
her. I should be glad, Levis, if you could forgive her, for--"

"No, do not ask it," he said hastily; adding, with a smile of ardent
affection into the azure eyes gazing so pleadingly into his; "I can
scarcely bear to say no to you, dearest, but I have passed sentence upon
the offender and cannot revoke it."

The carriage drove off; the others had already gone, and Lulu was left
alone in the house, the one maid-servant left behind having already
wandered off to the beach.

"There!" cried Lulu, stamping her foot with passion, then dropping into
a chair, "I say it's just too bad! She isn't old enough to be my mother,
and I won't have her for one; I sha'n't mind her! Papa had no business
to marry her. He hardly cares for anybody else now, and he ought to love
me better than he does her; for she isn't a bit of relation to him,
while I'm his own child.

"And I sha'n't wear dowdy, old-womanish dresses to please her, along
with other girls of my size that are dressed up in their best. I'd
rather stay at home than be mortified that way, and I just wish I had
told him so."

She was in so rebellious a mood that instead of at once changing her
dress in obedience to her father's command, she presently rose from her
chair, walked out at the front door and paraded through the village
streets in her finery, saying to herself, "I'll let people see that I
have some decent clothes to wear."

Returning after a little, she was much surprised to find Betty Johnson
stretched full length on a lounge with a paper-covered novel in her
hand, which she seemed to be devouring with great avidity.

"Why, Betty!" she exclaimed, "are you here? I thought you went with the
rest to the 'squantum.'"

"Just what I thought in regard to your highness," returned Betty,
glancing up from her book with a laugh. "I stayed at home to enjoy my
book and the bath. What kept you?"

"Papa," answered Lulu with a frown; "he wouldn't let me go."

"Because you put on that dress, I presume," laughed Betty. "Well, it's
not very suitable, that's a fact. But I had no idea that the captain was
such a connoisseur in matters of that sort."

"He isn't! he doesn't know or care if it wasn't for Mamma Vi," burst out
Lulu vehemently. "And she's no business to dictate about my dress
either. I'm old enough to judge and decide for myself."

"Really, it is a great pity that one so wise should be compelled to
submit to dictation," observed Betty with exasperating irony.

Lulu, returning a furious look, which her tormentor feigned not to see,
then marching into the adjoining room, gave tardy obedience to her
father's orders anent the dress.

"Are you going in this morning?" asked Betty, when Lulu had returned to
the little parlor.

"I don't know; papa didn't say whether I might or not."

"Then I should take the benefit of the doubt and follow my own
inclination in the matter. It's ten now; the bathing hour is eleven; I
shall be done my book by that time, and we'll go in together if you
like."

"I'll see about it," Lulu said, walking away.

She went down to the beach and easily whiled away an hour watching the
waves and the people, and digging in the sand. When she saw the others
going to the bath-houses she hastened back to her temporary home.

As she entered Betty was tossing aside her book. "So here you are!" she
said, yawning and stretching herself. "Are you going in?"

"Yes; if papa is angry I'll tell him he should have forbidden me if he
didn't want me to do it."

They donned their bathing-suits and went in with the crowd; but though
no mishap befell them and they came out safely again, Lulu found that
for some reason her bath was not half so enjoyable as usual.

She and Betty dined at the hotel where the family had frequently taken
their meals, then they strolled down to the beach and seated themselves
on a bench under an awning.

After a while Betty proposed taking a walk.

"Where to?" asked Lulu.

"To Sankaty Lighthouse."

"Well, I'm agreed; it's a nice walk; you can look out over the sea all
the way," said Lulu, getting up. But a sudden thought seemed to strike
her; she paused and hesitated.

"Well, what's the matter?" queried Betty.

"Nothing; only papa told me I was to stay at home to-day."

"Oh, nonsense! what a little goose!" exclaimed Betty; "of course that
only meant you were not to go to the 'squantum'; so come along."

Lulu was by no means sure that that was really all her father meant, but
she wanted the walk, so suffered herself to be persuaded, and they went.

Betty had been a wild, ungovernable girl at school, glorying in
contempt for rules and daring "larks." She had not improved in that
respect, and so far from being properly ashamed of her wild pranks and
sometimes really disgraceful frolics, liked to describe them, and was
charmed to find in Lulu a deeply interested listener.

It was thus they amused themselves as they strolled slowly along the
bluff toward Sankaty.

When they reached there a number of carriages were standing about near
the entrance, several visitors were in the tower, and others were
waiting their turn.

"Let us go up too," Betty said to her little companion; "the view must
be finer to-day than it was when we were here before, for the atmosphere
is clearer."

"I'm afraid papa wouldn't like me to," objected Lulu; "he seemed to
think the other time that I needed him to take care of me," she added
with a laugh, as if it were quite absurd that one so old and wise as
herself should be supposed to need such protection.

"Pooh!" said Betty, "don't be a baby; I can take care of myself and you
too. Come, I'm going up and round outside too; and I dare you to do the
same."

Poor proud Lulu was one of the silly people who are not brave enough to
refuse to do a wrong or unwise thing if anybody dares them to do it.

"I'm not a bit afraid, Miss Johnson; you need not think that," she
said, bridling; "and I can take care of myself. I'll go."

"Come on then; we'll follow close behind that gentleman, and the keeper
won't suppose we are alone," returned Betty, leading the way.

Lulu found the steep stairs very hard to climb without the help of her
father's hand, and reached the top quite out of breath.

Betty too was panting. But they presently recovered themselves. Betty
stepped outside just behind the gentleman who had preceded them up the
stairs, and Lulu climbed quickly after her, frightened enough at the
perilous undertaking, yet determined to prove that she was equal to it.

But she had advanced only a few steps when a sudden rush of wind caught
her skirts and nearly took her off her feet.

Both she and Betty uttered a cry of affright, and at the same instant
Lulu felt herself seized from behind and dragged forcibly back and
within the window from which she had just emerged.

It was the face of a stranger that met her gaze as she looked up with
frightened eyes.

"Child," he said, "that was a narrow escape; don't try it again. Where
are your parents or guardians, that you were permitted to step out there
with no one to take care of you?"

Lulu blushed and hung her head in silence. Betty, who had followed her
in as fast as she could, generously took all the blame upon herself.

"Don't scold her, sir," she said; "it was all my doing. I brought her
here without the knowledge of her parents, and dared her to go out
there."

"You did?" he exclaimed, turning a severe look upon the young girl (he
was a middle-aged man of stern aspect). "Suppose I had not been near
enough to catch her, and she had been precipitated to the ground from
that great height--how would you have felt?"

"I could never have forgiven myself or had another happy moment while I
lived," Betty said, in half tremulous tones, "I can never thank you
enough, sir, for saving her," she added, warmly.

"No, nor I," said the keeper. "I should always have felt that I was to
blame for letting her go out; but you were close behind, sir, and the
other gentleman before, and I took you to be all one party, and of
course thought you would take care of the little girl."

"She has had quite a severe shock," the gentleman remarked, again
looking at Lulu, who was very pale and trembling like a leaf. "You had
better wait and let me help you down the stairs. I shall be ready in a
very few moments."

Betty thanked him and said they would wait.

While they did so she tried to jest and laugh with Lulu; but the little
girl was in no mood for such things; she felt sick and dizzy at the
thought of the danger she had escaped but a moment ago. She made no
reply to Betty's remarks, and indeed seemed scarcely to hear them.

She was quite silent, too, while being helped down the stairs by the
kind stranger, but thanked him prettily as they separated.

"You are heartily welcome," he said; "but if you will take my advice you
will never go needlessly into such danger again."

With that he shook hands with her, bowed to Betty, and moved away.

"Will you go in and rest awhile, Lu?" asked Betty.

"No, thank you; I'm not tired; and I'd rather be close by the sea. Tell
me another of your stories, won't you? to help me forget how near I came
to falling."

Betty good-naturedly complied, but found Lulu a less interested listener
than before.

The "squantum" party were late in returning, and when they arrived Betty
and Lulu were in bed; but the door between the room where Lulu lay and
the parlor, or sitting-room, as it was indifferently called, was ajar,
and she could hear all that was said there.

"Where is Lulu?" her father asked of the maid-servant who had been left
behind.

"Gone to bed, sir," was the answer.

Then the captain stepped to the chamber door, pushed it wider open, and
came to the bedside.

Lulu pretended to be asleep, keeping her eyes tight shut, but all the
time feeling that he was standing there and looking down at her.

He sighed slightly, turned away, and went from the room; then she buried
her face in the pillows and cried softly but quite bitterly.

"He might have kissed me," she said to herself; "he would if he loved me
as much as he used to before he got married."

Then his sigh seemed to echo in her heart, and she grew remorseful over
the thought that her misconduct had grieved as well as displeased him.

And how much more grieved and displeased he would be if he knew how she
had disregarded his wishes and commands during his absence that day!

And soon he would be ordered away again, perhaps to the other side of
the world; in danger from the treacherous deep and maybe from savages,
too, in some of those far-away places where his vessel would touch; and
so the separation might be for years or forever in this world; and if
she continued to be the bad girl she could not help acknowledging to
herself she now was, how dared she hope to be with her Christian father
in another life? She had no doubt that he was a Christian; it was
evident from his daily walk and conversation; and she was equally
certain that she herself was not.

And what a kind, affectionate father he had always been to her; she grew
more and more remorseful as she thought of it; and if he had been beside
her at that moment would certainly have confessed all the wrong-doing of
the day and asked forgiveness.

But he was probably in bed now; all was darkness and silence in the
house; so she lay still, and presently forgot all vexing thought in
sound, refreshing sleep.

When she awoke again the morning sun was shining brightly, and her mood
had changed.

The wrong-doings of the previous day were the merest trifles, and it
would really be quite ridiculous to go and confess them to her father;
she supposed, indeed was quite sure, that ha would be better pleased
with her if she made some acknowledgment of sorrow for the fault for
which he had punished her; but the very thought of doing so was so
galling to her pride that she was stubbornly determined not to do
anything of the kind.

She was thinking it all over while dressing, and trying hard to believe
herself a very ill-used, instead of naughty, child. It was a burning
shame that she had been scolded and left behind for such a trifling
fault; but she would let "papa" and everybody else see that she didn't
care; she wouldn't ask one word about what kind of a time they had had
(she hoped it hadn't been so very nice); and she would show papa, too,
that she could do very well without caresses and endearments from him.

Glancing from the window, she saw him out on the bluff back of the
cottage; but though her toilet was now finished, she did not, as usual,
run out to put her hand in his, and with a glad good-morning hold up her
face for a kiss.

She went quietly to the dooryard looking upon the village street, and
peeped into the window of the room where Grace was dressing with a
little help from Agnes, their mamma's maid.

"Oh, Lu, good-morning," cried the little girl. "I was so sorry you
weren't with us yesterday at the 'squantum;' we had ever such a nice
time; only I missed you very much."

"Your sympathy was wasted, Grace," returned Lulu, with a grand air. "I
had a very pleasant time at home."

"Dar now, you's done finished, Miss Gracie," said Agnes, turning to
leave the room; then she laughed to herself as she went, "Miss Lu she
needn't think she don't 'ceive nobody wid dem grand airs ob hers; 'spect
we all knows she been glad nuff to go ef de cap'n didn't tole her she
got for to stay behin'."

Grace ran out and joined her sister at the door. "Oh, Lu, you would have
enjoyed it if you had been with us," she said, embracing her. "But we
are going to have a drive this morning. We're to start as soon as
breakfast is over, and only come back in time for the bath; and papa
says you can go too if you want to, and are a good girl; and you--"

"I don't want to," said Lulu, with a cold, offended air. "I like to be
by myself on the beach; I enjoyed it very much yesterday, and shall
enjoy it to-day; I don't need anybody's company."

Her conscience gave her a twinge as she spoke, reminding her that she
had passed but little of her day alone on the beach.

Grace gazed at her with wide-open eyes, lost in astonishment at her
strange mood; but hearing their father's step within the house, turned
about and ran to meet him and claim her morning kiss.

"Where is your sister?" he asked when he had given it.

"The little one is asleep, papa," she answered gayly; "the other one is
at the door there."

He smiled. "Tell her to come in," he said; "we are going to have
prayers."

Lulu obeyed the summons, but took a seat near the door, without so much
as glancing toward her father.

When the short service was over Grace seated herself upon his knee, and
Max stood close beside him, both laughing and talking right merrily; but
Lulu sat where she was, gazing in moody silence into the street.

At length, in a pause in the talk, the captain said, in a kindly tone,
"One of my little girls seems to have forgotten to bid me good-morning."

"Good-morning, papa," muttered Lulu, sullenly, her face still averted.

"Good-morning, Lucilla," he said; and she knew by his tone and use of
her full name that he was by no means pleased with her behavior.

At that moment they were summoned to breakfast.

Lulu took her place with the others and ate in silence, scarce lifting
her eyes from her plate, while everybody else was full of cheerful chat.

A carriage was at the door when they left the table.

"Make haste, children," the captain said, "so that we may have time for
a long drive before the bathing hour."

Max and Grace moved promptly to obey, but Lulu stood still.

"I spoke to you, Lulu, as well as to the others," her father said, in
his usual kindly tone; "you may go with us, if you wish."

"I don't care to, papa," she answered, turning away.

"Very well, I shall not compel you; you may do just as you please about
it," he returned. "Stay at home if you prefer it. You may go down to the
beach if you choose, but nowhere else."

"Yes, sir," she muttered, and walked out of the room, wondering in a
half-frightened way if he knew or suspected where she had been the day
before.

In fact, he did neither; he believed Lulu a more obedient child than she
was, and had no idea that she had not done exactly as he bade her.

This time she was so far obedient that she went nowhere except to the
beach, but while wandering about there she was nursing unkind and
rebellious thoughts and feelings; trying hard to convince herself that
her father loved her less than he did his other children, and was more
inclined to be severe with her than with them. In her heart of hearts
she believed no such thing, but pretending to herself that she did, she
continued her unlovely behavior all that day and the next, sulking
alone most of the time; doing whatever she was bidden, but with a sullen
air, seldom speaking unless she was spoken to, never hanging lovingly
about her father, as had been her wont, but rather seeming to avoid
being near him whenever she could.

It pained him deeply to see her indulging so evil a temper, but he
thought best to appear not to notice it. He did not offer her the
caresses she evidently tried to avoid, and seldom addressed her; but
when he did speak to her it was in his accustomed kind, fatherly tones,
and it was her own fault if she did not share in every pleasure provided
for the others.

In the afternoon of the second day they were all gathered upon the beach
as usual, when a young girl, who seemed to be a new-comer in 'Sconset,
drew near and accosted Betty as an old acquaintance.

"Why, Anna Eastman, who would have expected to see you here?" cried
Betty, in accents of pleased surprise, springing up to embrace the
stranger.

Then she introduced her to Elsie, Violet, and Captain Raymond, who
happened to be sitting near, as an old school friend.

"And you didn't know I was on the island?" remarked Miss Eastman
laughingly to Betty, when the introductions were over.

"I hadn't the least idea of it. When did you arrive?"

"Several days since--last Monday; and this is Friday. By the way, I saw
you on Tuesday, though you did not see me."

"How and where?" asked Betty in surprise, not remembering at the moment
how she had spent that day.

"At Sankaty Lighthouse; I was in a carriage out on the green in front of
the lighthouse, and saw you and that little girl yonder (nodding in
Lulu's direction) come out on the top of the tower; then a puff of wind
took the child's skirts, and I fairly screamed with fright, expecting to
see her fall and be crushed to death; but somebody jerked her back
within the window just in time to save her. Weren't you terribly
frightened, dear?" she asked, addressing Lulu.

"Of course I was," Lulu answered in an ungracious tone; then rose and
sauntered away along the beach. "What did she tell it for, hateful
thing!" she muttered to herself; "now papa knows it, and what will he
say and do to me?"

She had not ventured to look at him; if she had she would have seen his
face grow suddenly pale, then assume an expression of mingled sternness
and pain.

He presently rose and followed her, though she did not know it till he
had reached her side and she felt him take her hand in his. He sat
down, making her sit by his side.

"Is this true that I hear of you, Lulu?" he asked.

"Yes, papa," she answered in a low, unwilling tone, hanging her head as
she spoke, for she dared not look him in the face.

"I did not think one of my children would be so disobedient," he said,
in pained accents.

"Papa, you never said I shouldn't go to Sankaty Lighthouse," she
muttered.

"I never gave you leave to go, and I have told you positively, more than
once, that you must not go to any distance from the house without
express permission. Also I am sure you could not help understanding,
from what was said when I took you to the lighthouse, that I would be
very far from willing that you should go up into the tower, and
especially outside, unless I were with you to take care of you. Besides,
what were my orders to you just as I was leaving the house that
morning?"

"You told me to change my dress immediately and to stay at home."

"Did you obey the first order?"

Lulu was silent for a moment; then as her father was evidently waiting
for an answer, she muttered, "I changed my dress after a while."

"That was not obeying; I told you to do it immediately," he said in a
tone of severity, "What did you do in the mean time?"

"I don't want to tell you," she muttered.

"You must; and you are not to say you don't want to do what I bid you.
What were you doing?"

"Walking round the town."

"Breaking two of your father's commands at once. What next? give me a
full account of the manner in which you spent the day."

"I came in soon and changed my dress; then went to the beach till the
bathing hour; then Betty and I went in together; then we had our dinner
at the hotel and came back to the beach for a little while; then we went
to Sankaty."

"Filling up the whole day with repeated acts of disobedience," he said.

"Papa, you didn't say I mustn't go in to bathe, or that I shouldn't take
a walk."

"I told you to stay at home, and you disobeyed that order again and
again. And you have been behaving very badly ever since, showing a most
unamiable temper. I have overlooked it, hoping to see a change for the
better in your conduct without my resorting to punishment; but I think
the time has now come when I must try that with you."

He paused for some moments. Wondering at his silence, she at length
ventured a timid look up into his face.

It was so full of pain and distress that her heart smote her, and she
was seized with a sudden fury at herself as the guilty cause of his
suffering.

"Lulu," he said, with a sigh that was almost a groan, "what am I to do
with you?"

"Whip me, papa," she burst out; "I deserve it. You've never tried that
yet, and maybe it would make me a better girl, I almost wish you would,
papa," she went on in her vehement way; "I could beat myself for being
so bad and hurting you so."

He made no answer to that, but presently said in moved tones, "What if I
had come back that night to find the dear little daughter I had left a
few hours before in full health and strength, lying a crushed and
mangled corpse? killed without a moment's time to repent of her
disobedience to her father's known wishes and commands? Could I have
hoped to have you restored to me even in another world, my child?"

"No, papa," she said, half under her breath; "I know I wasn't fit to go
to heaven, and that I'm not fit now; but would you have been really very
sorry to lose such a bad, troublesome child?"

"Knowing that, as you yourself acknowledge, you were not fit for
heaven, it would have been the heaviest blow I have ever had," he said.
"My daughter, you are fully capable of understanding the way of
salvation, therefore are an accountable being, and, so long as you
neglect it, in danger of eternal death. I shall never be easy about you
till I have good reason to believe that you have given your heart to the
Lord Jesus, and devoted yourself entirely to His blessed service."

He ceased speaking, gave her a few moments for silent reflection, then
setting her on her feet, rose, took her hand, and led her back toward
the village.

"Are you going to punish me, papa?" she asked presently, in a
half-frightened tone.

"I shall take that matter into consideration," was all he said, and she
knew from his grave accents that she was in some danger of receiving
what she felt to be her deserts.




CHAPTER VII.

"The rod and reproof give wisdom: but a child left to himself bringeth
his mother to shame."


Lulu hated suspense; it seemed to her worse than the worst certainty; so
when they had gone a few steps farther she said, hesitating and blushing
very deeply, "Papa, if you are going to punish me as--as I--said I 'most
wished you would, please don't let Mamma Vi or anybody know it, and--"

"Certainly not; it shall be a secret between our two selves," he said as
she broke off without finishing her sentence; "if we can manage it," he
added a little doubtfully.

"They all go down to the beach every evening, you know, papa," she
suggested in a timid, half-hesitating way, and trembling as she spoke.

"Yes, that would give us a chance; but I have not said positively that I
intend to punish you in that way."

"No, sir; but--oh, do please say certainly that you will or you won't."

The look he gave her as she raised her eyes half fearfully to his face
was very kind and affectionate, though grave and judicial. "I am not
angry with you," he said, "in the sense of being in a passion or out of
patience--not in the least; but I feel it to be my duty to do all I
possibly can to help you to be a better child, and noticing, as I have
said, for the last two or three days what a wilful, wicked temper you
were indulging, I have been considering very seriously whether I ought
not to try the very remedy you have yourself suggested, and I am afraid
I ought indeed. Do you still think, as you told me a while ago, that
this sort of punishment might be a help to you in trying to be good?"

Lulu hesitated a moment, then said impetuously, and as if determined to
own the truth though it were to pass sentence upon herself, "Yes, papa,
honestly I do; though I don't want you to do it one bit. But," she
added, "I sha'n't love you any less if you whip me ever so hard, because
I shall know you don't like to do it, and wouldn't except for the reason
you've given."

"No, indeed, I should not," he said; "but you are to stay behind
to-night when the others go to the beach."

"Yes, papa, I will," she answered submissively, but with a perceptible
tremble in her voice.

Grace and Max were coming to meet them, so there was no opportunity to
talk any more on the subject, and she walked on in silence by her
father's side, trying hard to act and look as if nothing was amiss with
her, clinging fast to the hand in which he had taken hers, while Grace
took possession of the other.

"You ought to have three hands, papa," laughed Max a little ruefully.

"Four," corrected Grace; "for some day little Elsie will be wanting
one."

"I shall have to manage it by taking you in turn," the captain said,
looking down upon them with a fatherly smile.

Violet and some of the other members of their party were still seated
where they had left them on the benches under the awning just out of
reach of the waves, and thither the captain and his children bent their
steps.

Sitting down by his wife's side, he drew Grace to his knee and Lulu
close to his other side, keeping an arm round each while chatting
pleasantly with his family and friends.

Lulu was very silent, constantly asking herself, and with no little
uneasiness, what he really intended to do with her when, according to
his direction, she should stay behind with him after tea while the
others returned to the beach.

One thing she was determined on--that she would if possible obey the
order without attracting any one's notice. Everybody must have seen how
badly she had been behaving, but the thought of that was not half so
galling to her pride as the danger of suspicion being aroused that
punishment had been meted out to her on account of it.

Max watched her curiously, and took an opportunity, on their return to
the house, to say privately to her, "I'm glad you've turned over a new
leaf, Lu, and begun to behave decently to papa; I've wondered over and
over again in the last few days that he didn't take you in hand in a way
to convince you that he wasn't to be trifled with. It's my opinion that
if you'd been a boy you'd have got a trouncing long before this."

"Indeed!" she cried, with an angry toss of her head; "I'm glad I'm not a
boy if I couldn't be one without using such vulgar words."

"Oh, that isn't such a very bad word," returned Max, laughing; "but I
can tell you, from sad experience, that the _thing_ is bad enough
sometimes; I'd be quaking in my shoes if I thought papa had any reason
to consider me deserving of one."

"I don't see what you mean by talking so to me," exclaimed Lulu,
passionately; "but I think you are a Pharisee--making yourself out so
much better than I am!"

The call to supper interrupted them just there, and perhaps saved them
from a down-right quarrel.

Lulu had no appetite for the meal, and it seemed to her that the others
would never have done eating; then that they lingered unusually long
about the house before starting for their accustomed evening
rendezvous--the beach; for she was on thorns all the time.

At last some one made a move, and catching a look from her father which
she alone saw or understood, she slipped unobserved into her bedroom and
waited there with a fast beating heart.

She heard him say to Violet, "Don't wait for me, my love; I have a
little matter to attend to here, and will follow you in the course of
half an hour."

"Anything I can help you with?" Violet asked.

"Oh, no, thank you," he said, "I need no assistance."

"A business letter to write, I presume," she returned laughingly. "Well,
don't make it too long, for I grudge every moment of your time."

With that she followed the others, and all was quiet except for the
captain's measured tread, for he was slowly pacing the room to and fro.

Impatient, impetuous Lulu did not know how to endure the suspense; she
seemed to herself like a criminal awaiting execution. Softly she opened
the door and stepped out in front of her father, stopping him in his
walk.

"Papa," she said, with pale, trembling lips, looking beseechingly up
into his face, "whatever you are going to do to me, won't you please do
it at once and let me have it over?"

He took her hand and, sitting down, drew her to his side, putting his
arm around her.

"My little daughter," he said very gravely, but not unkindly, "my
responsibility in regard to your training weighs very heavily on my
mind; it is plain to me that you will make either a very good and useful
woman, or one who will be a curse to herself and others; for you are too
energetic and impulsive, too full of strong feeling to be lukewarm and
indifferent in anything.

"You are forming your character now for time and for eternity, and I
must do whatever lies in my power to help you to form it aright; for
good and not for evil. You inherit a sinful nature from me, and have
very strong passions which must be conquered or they will prove your
ruin. I fear you do not see the great sinfulness of their indulgence,
and that it may be that I am partly to blame for that in having passed
too lightly over such exhibitions of them as have come under my notice:
in short, that perhaps if I had been more justly severe with your
faults you would have been more thoroughly convinced of their
heinousness and striven harder and with greater success to conquer them.

"Therefore, after much thought and deliberation, and much prayer for
guidance and direction, I have fully decided that I ought to punish you
severely for the repeated acts of disobedience you have been guilty of
in the last few days, and the constant exhibition of ill-temper.

"It pains me exceedingly to do it, but I must not consider my own
feelings where my dear child's best interests are concerned."

"Is it because I asked you to do it, papa?" she inquired. "I never
thought you would when I said it."

"No; I have been thinking seriously on the subject ever since you
behaved so badly the day of the 'squantum,' and had very nearly decided
the question just as I have fully decided it now. I know you are an
honest child, even when the truth is against you; tell me, do you not
yourself think that I am right?"

"Yes, sir," she answered, low and tremulously, after a moment's struggle
with herself. "Oh, please do it at once, so it will be over soon!"

"I will," he said, rising and leading her into the inner room; "you
shall not have the torture of anticipation a moment longer."

Though the punishment was severe beyond Lulu's worst anticipations, she
bore it without outcry or entreaty, feeling that she richly deserved it,
and determined that no one who might be within hearing should learn from
any sound she uttered what was going on. Tears and now and then a
half-suppressed sob were the only evidences of suffering that she
allowed herself to give.

Her father was astonished at her fortitude, and more than ever convinced
that she had in her the elements of a noble character.

The punishment over, he took her in his arms, laying her head against
his breast. Both were silent, her tears falling like rain.

At length, with a heart-broken sob, "You hurt me terribly, papa," she
said; "I didn't think you would ever want to hurt me so."

"I did not want to," he answered in moved tones; "it was sorely against
my inclination, I cannot tell you how gladly I should have borne twice
the pain for you if so I could have made you a good girl. I know you
have sometimes troubled yourself with foolish fears that you had less
than your fair share of my affection; but I have not a child that is
nearer or dearer to me than you are, my darling. I love you very much."

"I'm so glad, papa; I 'most wonder you can," she sobbed; "and I love
you dearly, dearly; I know I've not been acting like it lately, but I
do, and just as much now as before. Oh, papa, you don't know how hard it
is for me to be good!"

"I think I do," he said; "for I am naturally quite as bad as you are,
having a violent temper, which would most certainly have been my ruin
had I not been forced to learn to control it; indeed I fear it is from
me you get your temper.

"I had a good Christian mother," he went on, "who was very faithful in
her efforts to train her children up aright. My fits of passion gave her
great concern and anxiety. I can see now how troubled and distressed she
used to look.

"Usually she would shut me up in a room by myself until I had had time
to cool down, then come to me, talk very seriously and kindly of the
danger and sinfulness of such indulgence of temper, telling me there was
no knowing what dreadful deed I might some day be led to commit in my
fury, if I did not learn to rule my own spirit; and that therefore for
my own sake she must punish me to teach me self-control. She would then
chastise me, often quite severely, and leave me to myself again to
reflect upon the matter. Thus she finally succeeded in so convincing me
of the great guilt and danger of giving rein to my fiery temper and the
necessity of gaining the mastery over it, that I fought hard to do so,
and with God's help have, I think, gained the victory.

"It is the remembrance of all this, and how thankful I am to my mother
now for her faithfulness, that has determined me to be equally faithful
to my own dear little daughter, though unfortunately I lack the
opportunity for the same constant watchfulness over my children."

"Oh, papa, if you only could be with us all the time!" she sighed. "But
I never thought you had a temper. I've seen some people fly at their
naughty children in a great passion and beat them hard; I should think
if you had such a bad temper as you say, you'd have treated me so many a
time."

"Very likely I should if your grandmother had not taught me to control
it," he said; "you may thank her that you have as good a father as you
have."

"I think I have the best in the world," she said, putting her arm round
his neck; "and now that it's all over, papa, I'm glad you did punish me
just so hard; for I don't feel half so mean, because it seems as if I
have sort of paid for my naughtiness toward you."

"Yes, toward me; the account is settled between us; but remember that
you cannot so atone for your sin against God; nothing but the blood of
Christ can avail to blot out that account against you, and you must ask
to be forgiven for His sake alone. We will kneel down and ask it now."

Violet glanced again and again toward the cottages on the bluff,
wondering and a trifle impatient at her husband's long delay, but at
length saw him approaching, leading Lulu by the hand.

There was unusual gravity, amounting almost to sternness, in his face,
and Lulu's wore a more subdued expression than she had ever seen upon
it, while traces of tears were evident upon her cheeks,

"He has been talking very seriously to her in regard to the ill-temper
she has shown during the past few days," Violet said to herself. "Poor
wayward child! I hope she will take the lesson to heart, and give him
less trouble and anxiety in future."

He kept Lulu close at his side all the evening, and she seemed well
content to stay there, her head on his shoulder, his arm around her
waist, while she listened silently to the talk going on around her or to
the booming of the waves upon the beach not many yards away.

When it was time for the children to retire, he took her and Grace to
the house. At the door he bent down and kissed Grace good-night,
saying, "I shall not wait to see you in your bed, but shall come in to
look at you before I go to mine."

"May I have a kiss too, papa?" Lulu asked in a wishful, half-tremulous
voice, as though a trifle uncertain whether her request would be
granted.

"Yes, my dear little daughter, as many as you wish," he replied, taking
her in his arms and bestowing them with hearty good-will and affection.

"I'm sorry--oh, very sorry for all my naughtiness, papa," she whispered
in his ear while clinging about his neck.

"It is all forgiven now," he said, "and I trust will never be repeated."

Lulu was very good, submissive, and obedient during the remainder of her
father's stay among them.

She was greatly distressed when, two weeks later, orders came for him to
join his ship the following day. She clung to him with devoted,
remorseful affection and distress in prospect of the impending
separation, while he treated her with even more than his wonted
kindness, drawing her often caressingly to his knee, and his voice
taking on a very tender tone whenever he spoke to her.

It was in the evening he left them, for he was to drive over to
Nantucket Town and pass the night there in order to take the early boat
leaving for the mainland the next morning.

Mr. Dinsmore went with him, intending to go to Boston for a few days,
perhaps on to New York also, then return to Siasconset.

Harold, Herbert, Bob, and Max set out that same evening for their
camping ground; so that Mr. Edward Travilla was the only man of the
party left to take care of the women and children.

However, they would all have felt safe enough in that very quiet spot,
or anywhere on the island, without any such protection.

Lulu went to bed that night full of remorseful regret that through her
own wilfulness she had lost many hours of her father's prized society,
besides grieving and displeasing him.

Oh, if she could but go back and live the last few weeks over, how
differently she would behave! She would not give him the least cause to
be displeased with or troubled about her.

As often before, she felt a great disgust at herself, and a longing
desire to be good and gentle like Gracie, who never seemed to have the
slightest inclination to be quick-tempered or rebellious.

"She's so sweet and dear!" murmured Lulu half aloud, and reaching out a
hand to softly touch the little sister sleeping quietly by her side; "I
should think papa would love her ten times better than me; but he says
he doesn't, and he always tells the truth. I wish I'd been made like
Gracie; but I'm ever so glad he can love me in spite of all my badness.
Oh, I am determined to be good the next time he's at home, so that he
will enjoy his visit more. It was a burning shame in me to spoil this
one so; I'd like to beat you for it, Lulu Raymond, and I'm glad he
didn't let you escape."

Violet and her mother were passing the night together, and lying side by
side talked to each other in loving confidence of such things as lay
nearest their hearts. Naturally Vi's thoughts were full of the husband
from whom she had just parted--for how long?--it might be months or
years.

"Mamma," she said, "the more I am with him and study his character, the
more I honor and trust and love him. It is the one trial of my otherwise
exceptionally happy life, that we must pass so much of our time apart,
and that he has such a child as Lulu to mar his enjoyment of--"

"Oh, dear daughter," interrupted Elsie, "do not allow yourself to feel
otherwise than very kindly toward your husband's child; Lulu has some
very noble traits, and I trust you will try to think of them rather than
of her faults, serious as they may seem to you."

"Yes, mamma, there are some things about her that are very lovable, and
I really have a strong affection for her, even aside from the fact that
she is his child; yet when she behaves in a way that distresses him I
can hardly help wishing that she belonged to some one else.

"You surely must have noticed how badly she behaved for two or three
days. He never spoke to me about it, tried not to let me see that it
interfered with his enjoyment (for he knew that that would spoil mine),
but for all that I knew his heart was often heavy over her misconduct.

"Yet she certainly does love her father. How she clung to him after she
had heard that he must leave us so soon, with a remorseful affection, it
seemed to me."

"Yes, and though she shed but few tears in parting from him, I could see
that she was almost heart-broken. She is a strange child, but if she
takes the right turn, will assuredly make a noble, useful woman."

"I hope so, mamma; and that will, I know, repay him for all his care and
anxiety on her account. No father could be fonder of his children or
more willing to do or endure anything for their sake. Of course I do not
mean anything wrong; he would not do wrong himself or suffer wrong-doing
in them; for his greatest desire is to see them truly good, real
Christians. I hope my darling, as she grows older, will be altogether a
comfort and blessing to him."

"As her mother has been to me, and always was to her father," Elsie
responded in loving tones.

"Thank you, mamma," Violet said with emotion; "oh, if I had been an
undutiful daughter and given pain and anxiety to my best of fathers, how
my heart would ache at the remembrance, now that he is gone. And I feel
deep pity for Lulu when I think what sorrow she is preparing for herself
in case she outlives her father, as in the course of nature she is
likely to do."

"Yes, poor child!" sighed Elsie; "and doubtless she is even now enduring
the reproaches of conscience aggravated by the fear that she may not see
her father very soon again.

"She and Gracie, to say nothing of my dear Vi, will be feeling lonely
to-morrow, and Edward, Zoe, and I have planned various little
excursions, by land and water, to give occupation to your thoughts and
pleasantly while away the time."

"You are always so kind, dearest mamma," said Violet; "always thinking
of others and planning for their enjoyment."

"Oh, how lonely it does seem without papa! our dear, dear papa!" was
Gracie's waking exclamation. "I wish he could live at home all the time
like other children's fathers do! When will he come again, Lulu?"

"I don't know, Gracie; I don't believe anybody knows," returned Lulu
sorrowfully. "But you have no occasion to feel half as badly about it as
I."

"Why not?" cried Grace, a little indignantly, even her gentle nature
aroused at the apparent insinuation that he was more to Lulu than to
herself; "you don't love him a bit better than I do."

"Maybe not; but Mamma Vi is more to you than she is to me; though that
wasn't what I was thinking of. I was only thinking that you had been a
good child to him all the time he has been at home, while I was so very,
very naughty that--"

Lulu broke off suddenly and went on with, her dressing in silence.

"That what?" asked Grace.

"That I grieved him very much and spoiled half his pleasure," Lulu said
in a choking voice. Then turning suddenly toward her sister, her face
flushing hotly, her eyes full of tears, bitterly ashamed of what she was
moved to tell, yet with a heart aching so for sympathy that she hardly
knew how to keep it back, "Gracie, if I tell you something will you
never, _never, never_ breathe a single word of it to a living soul?"

Grace, who was seated on the floor putting on her shoes and stockings,
looked up at her sister in silent astonishment.

"Come, answer," exclaimed Lulu impetuously; "do you promise? I know if
you make a promise you'll keep it. But I won't tell you without, for I
wouldn't have Mamma Vi, or Max, or anybody else but you know, for all
the world."

"Not papa?"

"Oh, Gracie, papa knows; it's a secret between him and me--only--only I
have a right to tell you if I choose."

"I'm glad he knows, because I couldn't promise not to tell him if he
asked me and said I must. Yes, I promise, Lulu. What is it?"

Lulu had finished her dressing, and dropping down on the carpet beside
Grace she began, half averting her face and speaking in low, hurried
tones. "You remember that morning we were all going to the 'squantum' I
changed my dress and put on a white one, and because of that, and
something I said to Max that papa overheard, he said I must stay at
home; and he ordered me to take off that dress immediately. Well, I
disobeyed him; I walked round the town in the dress before I took it
off, and instead of staying at home I went in to bathe, and took a walk
in the afternoon with Betty Johnson to Sankaty Lighthouse, and went up
in the tower and outside too."

"Oh, Lulu!" cried Grace, "how could you dare to do so?"

"I did, anyway," said Lulu; "and you know I was very ill-tempered for
two days afterward; so when papa knew it all he thought he ought to
punish me, and he did."

"How?"

"Oh, Grace! don't you know? can't you guess? It was when he and I stayed
back while all the rest went to the beach, that evening after Betty's
friend told of seeing me at Sankaty."

Grace drew a long breath. "Oh, Lu," she said pityingly, putting her arms
lovingly about her sister, "I'm so sorry for you! How could you bear it?
Did he hurt you very much?"

"Oh, yes, terribly; but I'm glad he did it (though I wouldn't for
anything let anybody know it but you), because I'd feel so mean if I
hadn't paid somehow for my badness. Papa was so good and kind to me--he
always is--and I had been behaving so hatefully to him.

"And he wasn't in a bit of a passion with me. I believe, as he told me,
he did hate to punish me, and only did it to help me to learn to conquer
my temper."

"And to be obedient, too?"

"Yes; the punishment was for that too, he said. But now don't you think
I have reason to feel worse about his going away just now than you?"

"Yes," admitted Grace; "I'd feel ever so badly if I'd done anything to
make dear papa sad and troubled; and I think I should be frightened to
death if he was going to whip me."

"No, you wouldn't," said Lulu, "for you would know papa wouldn't hurt
you any more than he thought necessary for your own good. Now let me
help you dress, for it must be near breakfast time."

"Oh, thank you; yes, I'll have to hurry. Do you love papa as well as
ever, Lu?"

"Better," returned Lulu, emphatically; "it seems odd, but I do. I
shouldn't though if I thought he took pleasure in beating me, or
punishing me in any way."

"I don't b'lieve he likes to punish any of us," said Grace.

"I _know_ he doesn't," said Lulu. "And it isn't any odder that I should
love him in spite of his punishments, than that he should love me in
spite of all my naughtiness. Yes, I do think, Gracie, we have the best
father in the world."

"'Course we have," responded Grace; "but then we don't have him half the
time; he's 'most always on his ship," she added tearfully.

"Are you ready for breakfast, dears?" asked a sweet voice at the door.

"Yes, Grandma Elsie," they answered, hastening to claim the good-morning
kiss she was always ready to bestow.

Lulu's heartache had found some relief in her confidence to her sister,
and she showed a pleasanter and more cheerful face at the table than
Violet expected to see her wear.

It grew brighter still when she learned that they were all to have a
long, delightful drive over the hills and moors, starting almost
immediately upon the conclusion of the meal.

The weather was charming, everybody in most amiable mood, and spite of
the pain of the recent parting from him whom they so dearly loved, that
would occasionally make itself felt in the hearts of wife and children,
the little trip was an enjoyable one to all.

Just as they drew up at the cottage door on their return, a blast of
Captain Baxter's tin horn announced his arrival with the mail, and
Edward, waiting only to assist the ladies and children to alight,
hurried off to learn if they had any interest in the contents of the
mailbag.




CHAPTER VIII.

"Be not too ready to condemn
   The wrongs thy brothers may have done;
 Ere ye too harshly censure them
   For human faults, ask, 'Have I none?'"

--_Miss Eliza Cook_.


The little girls took up their station at the front door to watch for
"Uncle Edward's" return.

Gracie presently cried out joyfully, "Oh, he's coming with a whole
handful of letters! I wonder if one is from papa."

"I'm afraid not," said Lulu; "he would hardly write last night, leaving
us so late as he did, and hardly have time before the leaving of the
early boat this morning."

The last word had scarcely left her lips when Edward reached her side
and put a letter into her hand--a letter directed to her, and
unmistakably in her father's handwriting.

"One for you, too, Vi," he said gayly, tossing it into her lap through
the open window.

"Excuse the unceremonious delivery, sister mine. Where are grandma and
mamma? I have a letter for each of them."

"Here," answered his mother's voice from within the room; then as she
took the missives from his hand, "Ah, I knew papa would not forget
either mamma or me."

"Where's my share, Ned?" asked Zoe, issuing from the inner room, where
she had been engaged in taking off her hat and smoothing her fair
tresses.

"Your share? Well, really I don't know; unless you'll accept the
mail-carrier as such," he returned sportively.

"Captain Baxter?" she asked in mock astonishment. "I'd rather have a
letter by half."

"But you can't have either," he returned, laughing; "you can have the
postman who delivered the letters here--nothing more; yours is 'Hobson's
choice.'"

Lulu, receiving her letter with a half-smothered exclamation of intense,
joyful surprise, ran swiftly away with it to the beach, never stopping
till she had gained a spot beyond and away from the crowd, where no
prying eye would watch her movements or note if the perusal of her
treasure caused any emotion.

There, seated upon the sand, she broke open the envelope with fingers
trembling with eagerness. It contained only a few lines in Captain
Raymond's bold chirography, but they breathed such fatherly love and
tenderness as brought the tears in showers from Lulu's eyes--tears of
intense joy and filial love. She hastily wiped them away and read the
sweet words again and again; then kissing the paper over and over,
placed it in her bosom, rose up, and slowly wended her way back toward
the house, with a lighter, happier heart than she had known for some
days.

She had not gone far when Grace came tripping over the sands to meet
her, her face sparkling with delight as she held up a note to view,
exclaiming, "See, Lu! papa did not forget me; it came inside of mamma's
letter."

"Oh, Gracie, I am glad," said Lulu; "but it would be very strange for
papa to remember the bad child and not the good one, wouldn't it?" she
concluded, between a sigh and a smile.

"I'm not always good," said Grace; "you know I did something very, very
bad last winter one time--something you would never do. I b'lieve you'd
speak the truth if you knew you'd be killed for it."

"You dear little thing!" exclaimed Lulu, throwing her arm round Grace
and giving her a hearty kiss; "it's very good in you to say it; but papa
says I'm an honest child and own the truth even when it's against me."

"Yes; you said you told him how you had disobeyed him; and If it had
been I, I wouldn't have ever said a word about it for fear he'd punish
me."

"Well, you can't help being timid; and if I were as timid as you are,
no doubt I'd be afraid to own up too; and I didn't confess till after
that Miss Eastman had told on me," said Lulu. "Now let's sit down on the
sand, and if you'll show me your letter, I'll show you mine."

Grace was more than willing, and they busied themselves with the
letters, reading and rereading, and with loving talk about their absent
father, till summoned to the supper-table.

Lulu was very fond of being on the beach, playing in the sand, wandering
hither and thither, or just sitting gazing dreamily out over the waves;
and her father had allowed her to do so, only stipulating that she
should not go out of sight or into any place that looked at all
dangerous.

"I'm going down to the beach," she said to Grace, when they had left the
table that evening; "won't you go too?"

"Not yet," said Grace; "baby is awake, and looks so sweet that I'd
rather stay and play with her a little while first."

"She does look pretty and sweet," assented Lulu, glancing toward the
babe, cooing in its nurse's arms, "but we can see enough of her after we
go home to Ion, and haven't the sea any more. I'll go now, and you can
come and join me when you are ready."

Leaving the house, Lulu turned southward toward Sunset Heights, and
strolled slowly on, gazing seaward for the most part, and drinking in
with delight the delicious breeze as it came sweeping on from no one
knows where, tearing the crests of the waves and scattering the spray
hither and yon.

The tide was rising, and it was keen enjoyment to watch the great
billows chasing each other in and dashing higher and higher on the sands
below. Then the sun drew near his setting, and the sea, reflecting the
gorgeous coloring of the clouds, changed every moment from one lovely
hue to another.

Lulu walked on and on, wilfully refusing to think how great might be the
distance she was putting between herself and home, and at length sat
down, the better to enjoy the lovely panorama of cloud and sea which
still continued to enrapture her with its ever-changing beauty.

By and by the colors began to fade and give place to a silvery gray,
which gradually deepened and spread till the whole sky was fast growing
black with clouds that even to her inexperienced eye portended a storm.

She started up and sent a sweeping glance around on every side. Could it
be possible that she was so far from the tiny 'Sconset cottage that at
present she called home? Here were Tom Never's Head and the life-saving
station almost close at hand; she had heard papa say they were a good
two miles from 'Sconset, so she must be very nearly that distance from
home, all alone too, and with night and a storm fast coming on.

"Oh me! I've been disobedient again," she said aloud, as she set off for
home at her most rapid pace; "what would papa say? It wasn't exactly
intentional this time, but I should not have been so careless."

Alarmed at the prospect of being overtaken by darkness and tempest alone
out in the wild, she used her best efforts to move with speed; but she
could scarcely see to pick her steps or take a perfectly direct course,
and now and again she was startled by the flutter of an affrighted
night-bird across her path as she wandered among the sand dunes, toiling
over the yielding soil, the booming of the waves and the melancholy
cadences of the wind as it rose and fell filling her ears.

She was a brave child, entirely free from superstitious fears, and
having learned that the island harbored no burglars or murderers, and
that there was no wild beast upon it, her only fear was of being
overtaken by the storm or lost on the moors, unable to find her way till
day-break.

But, gaining the top of a sand-hill, the star-like gleam of Sankaty
Light greeted her delighted eyes, and with a joyful exclamation, "Oh,
now I can find the way!" she sprang forward with renewed energy, soon
found the path to the village, pursued it with quickened steps and light
heart, although the rain was now pouring down, accompanied with
occasional flashes of lightning and peals of thunder, and in a few
moments pushed open the door of the cottage and stepped into the
astonished presence of the ladies of the party.

She had not been missed till the approach of the storm drove them all
within doors; then perceiving that the little girl was not among them,
the question passed from one to another, "Where is Lulu?"

No one could say where; Grace remembered that she had gone out intending
to take a stroll along the beach, but did not mention in which
direction.

"And she has never been known to stay out so late; and--and the tide is
coming in," cried Violet, sinking pale and trembling into a chair. "Oh,
mamma, if she is drowned, how shall I answer to my husband for taking so
little care of his child?"

"My dear daughter, don't borrow trouble," Elsie said cheerfully, though
her own cheek had grown very pale; "it was in my care he left her, not
in yours."

"Don't fret, Vi," Edward said; "I don't believe she's drowned; she has
more sense than to go where the tide would reach her; but I'll go at
once to look for her, and engage others in the search also."

He started for the door.

"She may be out on the moors, Ned," called Zoe, running after him with
his waterproof coat. "Here, put this on."

"No time to wait for that," he said.

"But you must take time," she returned, catching hold of him and
throwing it over his shoulders; "men have to obey their wives once in
awhile; Lu's not drowning; don't you believe it; and she may as well get
a wetting as you."

Grace, hiding her head in Violet's lap, was sobbing bitterly, the latter
stroking her hair in a soothing way, but too full of grief and alarm
herself to speak any comforting words.

"Don't cry, Gracie; and, Vi, don't look so distressed," said Betty.
"Lulu, like myself, is one of those people that need never be worried
about--the bad pennies that always turn up again."

"Then she isn't fit for heaven," remarked Rosie in an undertone not
meant for her sister's ear; "but I don't believe," she added in a louder
key, "that there is anything worse the matter than too long a walk for
her to get back in good season."

"That is my opinion, Vi," said Mrs. Dinsmore; and Elsie added, "Mine
also."

No one spoke again for a moment, and in the silence the heavy boom, boom
of the surf on the beach below came distinctly to their ears. Then there
was a vivid flash of lightning and a terrific thunder crash, followed
instantly by a heavy down-pour of rain.

"And she is out in all this!" exclaimed Violet in tones of deep
distress. "Dear child, if I only had her here safe in my arms, or if her
father were here to look after her!"

"And punish her," added Rosie. "It's my humble opinion that if ever a
girl of her age needed a good whipping, she does."

"Rosie," said her mother, with unwonted severity, "I cannot allow you to
talk in that way. Lulu's faults are different from yours, but perhaps no
worse; for while she is passionate and not sufficiently amenable to
authority, you are showing yourself both uncharitable and Pharisaical."

"Well, mamma," Rosie answered, blushing deeply at the reproof, "I cannot
help feeling angry with her for giving poor Vi so much unnecessary worry
and distress of mind. And I am sure her father must have felt troubled
and mortified by the way she behaved for two or three days while he was
here."

"But he loves her very dearly," said Violet; "so dearly that to lose
her in this way would surely break his heart."

"But I tell you he is not going to lose her in this way," said Betty in
a lively tone; "don't you be a bit afraid of it."

But Violet could not share the comfortable assurance; to her it seemed
more than likely Lulu had been too venturesome, and that a swiftly
incoming wave had carried her off her feet and swept her in its recoil
into the boiling sea.

"I shall never see the dear child again!" was her anguished thought;
"and oh, what news to write to her father! He will not blame me, I know,
but oh, I cannot help blaming myself that I did not miss her sooner and
send some one to search for and bring her back."

Elsie read her daughter's distress in her speaking countenance, and
sitting down by her side tried to cheer her with loving, hopeful words.

"Dear Vi," she said, "I have a strong impression that the child is not
lost, and will be here presently. But whatever has happened, or may
happen, stay your heart, dear one, upon your God; trust Him for the
child, for your husband, and for yourself. You know that troubles do not
spring out of the ground, and to His children He gives help and
deliverance out of all He sends them.

"'God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.' 'He
shall deliver thee in six troubles: yea in seven there shall no evil
touch thee.'"

There was perhaps not more than a half hour of this trying suspense
between Edward's departure in search of the missing child and her sudden
appearance in their midst: sudden it seemed because the roar of the sea
and howling of the storm drowned all other sounds from without, and
prevented any echo of approaching footsteps.

"Lulu!" they all cried in varied tones of surprise and relief, as they
started up and gathered about her dripping figure.

"Where have you been?"

"How wet you are!"

"Oh, dear child, I am so glad and thankful to see you; I have been
terribly frightened about you!" This last from Violet.

