
ELSIE DINSMORE

BY

MARTHA FINLEY




CHAPTER FIRST


   "I never saw an eye so bright,
     And yet so soft as hers;
   It sometimes swam in liquid light,
     And sometimes swam in tears;
   It seemed a beauty set apart
     For softness and for sighs."
                                 --MRS. WELBY.


The school-room at Roselands was a very pleasant apartment; the
ceiling, it is true, was somewhat lower than in the more modern portion
of the building, for the wing in which it was situated dated back to
the old-fashioned days prior to the Revolution, while the larger part
of the mansion had not stood more than twenty or thirty years; but the
effect was relieved by windows reaching from floor to ceiling, and
opening on a veranda which overlooked a lovely flower-garden, beyond
which were fields and woods and hills. The view from the veranda was
very beautiful, and the room itself looked most inviting, with its neat
matting, its windows draped with snow-white muslin, its comfortable
chairs, and pretty rosewood desks.

Within this pleasant apartment sat Miss Day with her pupils, six in
number. She was giving a lesson to Enna, the youngest, the spoiled
darling of the family, the pet and plaything of both father and mother.
It was always a trying task to both teacher and scholar, for Enna was
very wilful, and her teacher's patience by no means inexhaustible.

"There!" exclaimed Miss Day, shutting the book and giving it an
impatient toss on to the desk; "go, for I might as well try to teach
old Bruno. I presume he would learn about as fast."

And Enna walked away with a pout on her pretty face, muttering that she
would "tell mamma."

"Young ladies and gentlemen," said Miss Day, looking at her watch, "I
shall leave you to your studies for an hour; at the end of which time I
shall return to hear your recitations, when those who have attended
properly to their duties will be permitted to ride out with me to visit
the fair."

"Oh! that will be jolly!" exclaimed Arthur, a bright-eyed,
mischief-loving boy of ten.

"Hush!" said Miss Day sternly; "let me hear no more such exclamations;
and remember that you will not go unless your lessons are thoroughly
learned. Louise and Lora," addressing two young girls of the respective
ages of twelve and fourteen, "that French exercise must be perfect, and
your English lessons as well. Elsie," to a little girl of eight,
sitting alone at a desk near one of the windows, and bending over a
slate with an appearance of great industry, "every figure of that
example must be correct, your geography lesson recited perfectly, and a
page in your copybook written without a blot."

"Yes, ma'am," said the child meekly, raising a pair of large soft eyes
of the darkest hazel for an instant to her teacher's face, and then
dropping them again upon her slate.

"And see that none of you leave the room until I return," continued the
governess. "Walter, if you miss one word of that spelling, you will
have to stay at home and learn it over."

"Unless mamma interferes, as she will be pretty sure to do," muttered
Arthur, as the door closed on Miss Day, and her retreating footsteps
were heard passing down the hall.

For about ten minutes after her departure, all was quiet in the
school-room, each seemingly completely absorbed in study. But at the
end of that time Arthur sprang up, and flinging his book across the
room, exclaimed, "There! I know my lesson; and if I didn't, I shouldn't
study another bit for old Day, or Night either."

"Do be quiet, Arthur," said his sister Louise; "I can't study in such a
racket."

Arthur stole on tiptoe across the room, and coming up behind Elsie,
tickled the back of her neck with a feather.

She started, saying in a pleading tone, "Please, Arthur, don't."

"It pleases me to do," he said, repeating the experiment.

Elsie changed her position, saying in the same gentle, persuasive tone,
"O Arthur! _please_ let me alone, or I never shall be able to do this
example."

"What! all this time on one example! you ought to be ashamed. Why, I
could have done it half a dozen times over."

"I have been over and over it," replied the little girl in a tone of
despondency, "and still there are two figures that will not come right."

"How do you know they are not right, little puss?" shaking her curls as
he spoke.

"Oh! please, Arthur, don't pull my hair. I have the answer--that's the
way I know."

"Well, then, why don't you just set the figures down. I would."

"Oh! no, indeed; that would not be honest."

"Pooh! nonsense! nobody would be the wiser, nor the poorer."

"No, but it would be just like telling a lie. But I can never get it
right while you are bothering me so," said Elsie, laying her slate
aside in despair. Then taking out her geography, she began studying
most diligently. But Arthur continued his persecutions--tickling her,
pulling her hair, twitching the book out of her hand, and talking
almost incessantly, making remarks, and asking questions; till at last
Elsie said, as if just ready to cry, "Indeed, Arthur, if you don't let
me alone, I shall never be able to get my lessons."

"Go away then; take your book out on the veranda, and learn your
lessons there," said Louise. "I'll call you when Miss Day comes."

"Oh! no, Louise, I cannot do that, because it would be disobedience,"
replied Elsie, taking out her writing materials.

Arthur stood over her criticising every letter she made, and finally
jogged her elbow in such a way as to cause her to drop all the ink in
her pen upon the paper, making quite a large blot.

"Oh!" cried the little girl, bursting into tears, "now I shall lose my
ride, for Miss Day will not let me go; and I was so anxious to see all
those beautiful flowers."

Arthur, who was really not very vicious, felt some compunction when he
saw the mischief he had done. "Never mind, Elsie," said he. "I can fix
it yet. Just let me tear out this page, and you can begin again on the
next, and I'll not bother you. I'll make these two figures come right
too," he added, taking up her slate.

"Thank you, Arthur," said the little girl, smiling through her tears;
"you are very kind, but it would not be honest to do either, and I had
rather stay at home than be deceitful."

"Very well, miss," said he, tossing his head, and walking away, "since
you won't let me help you, it is all your own fault if you have to stay
at home."

"Elsie," exclaimed Louise, "I have no patience with you! such
ridiculous scruples as you are always raising. I shall not pity you one
bit, if you are obliged to stay at home."

Elsie made no reply, but, brushing away a tear, bent over her writing,
taking great pains with every letter, though saying sadly to herself
all the time, "It's of no use, for that great ugly blot will spoil it
all."

She finished her page, and, excepting the unfortunate blot, it all
looked very neat indeed, showing plainly that it had been written with
great care. She then took up her slate and patiently went over and over
every figure of the troublesome example, trying to discover where her
mistake had been. But much time had been lost through Arthur's teasing,
and her mind was so disturbed by the accident to her writing that she
tried in vain to fix it upon the business in hand; and before the two
troublesome figures had been made right, the hour was past and Miss Day
returned.

"Oh!" thought Elsie, "if she will only hear the others first, I may be
able to get this and the geography ready yet; and perhaps, if Arthur
will be generous enough to tell her about the blot, she may excuse me
for it."

But it was a vain hope. Miss Day had no sooner seated herself at her
desk, than she called, "Elsie, come here and say that lesson; and bring
your copybook and slate, that I may examine your work."

Elsie tremblingly obeyed.

The lesson, though a difficult one, was very tolerably recited; for
Elsie, knowing Arthur's propensity for teasing, had studied it in her
own room before school hours. But Miss Day handed back the book with a
frown, saying, "I told you the recitation must be perfect, and it was
not."

She was always more severe with Elsie than with any other of her
pupils. The reason the reader will probably be able to divine ere long.

"There are two incorrect figures in this example," said she, laying
down the slate, after glancing over its contents. Then taking up the
copy-book, she exclaimed, "Careless, disobedient child! did I not
caution you to be careful not to blot your book! There will be no ride
for you this morning. You have failed in everything. Go to your seat.
Make that example right, and do the next; learn your geography lesson
over, and write another page in your copy-book; and, mind, if there is
a blot on it, you will get no dinner."

Weeping and sobbing, Elsie took up her books and obeyed.

During this scene Arthur stood at his desk pretending to study, but
glancing every now and then at Elsie, with a conscience evidently ill
at ease. She cast an imploring glance at him, as she returned to her
seat; but he turned away his head, muttering, "It's all her own fault,
for she wouldn't let me help her."

As he looked up again, he caught his sister Lora's eyes fixed on him
with an expression of scorn and contempt. He colored violently, and
dropped his eyes upon his book.

"Miss Day," said Lora, indignantly, "I see Arthur does not mean to
speak, and as I cannot bear to see such injustice, I must tell you that
it is all his fault that Elsie has failed in her lessons; for she tried
her very best, but he teased her incessantly, and also jogged her elbow
and made her spill the ink on her book; and to her credit she was too
honorable to tear out the leaf from her copy-book, or to let him make
her example right; both which he very generously proposed doing after
causing all the mischief."

"Is this so, Arthur?" asked Miss Day, angrily.

The boy hung his head, but made no reply.

"Very well, then," said Miss Day, "you too must stay at home."

"Surely," said Lora, in surprise, "you will not keep Elsie, since I
have shown you that she was not to blame."

"Miss Lora," replied her teacher, haughtily, "I wish you to understand
that I am not to be dictated to by my pupils."

Lora bit her lip, but said nothing, and Miss Day went on hearing the
lessons without further remark.

In the meantime the little Elsie sat at her desk, striving to conquer
the feelings of anger and indignation that were swelling in her breast;
for Elsie, though she possessed much of "the ornament of a meek and
quiet spirit," was not yet perfect, and often had a fierce contest with
her naturally quick temper. Yet it was seldom, very seldom that word or
tone or look betrayed the existence of such feelings; and it was a
common remark in the family that Elsie had no spirit.

The recitations were scarcely finished when the door opened and a lady
entered dressed for a ride.

"Not through yet, Miss Day?" she asked.

"Yes, madam, we are just done," replied the teacher, closing the French
grammar and handing it to Louise.

"Well, I hope your pupils have all done their duty this morning, and
are ready to accompany us to the fair," said Mrs. Dinsmore. "But what
is the matter with Elsie?"

"She has failed in all her exercises, and therefore has been told that
she must remain at home," replied Miss Day with heightened color and in
a tone of anger; "and as Miss Lora tells me that Master Arthur was
partly the cause, I have forbidden him also to accompany us."

"Excuse me, Miss Day, for correcting you," said Lora, a little
indignantly; "but I did not say _partly,_ for I am sure it was
_entirely_ his fault."

"Hush, hush, Lora," said her mother, a little impatiently; "how can you
be sure of any such thing; Miss Day, I must beg of you to excuse Arthur
this once, for I have quite set my heart on taking him along. He is
fond of mischief, I know, but he is only a child, and you must not be
too hard upon him."

"Very well, madam," replied the governess stiffly, "you have of course
the best right to control your own children."

Mrs. Dinsmore turned to leave the room.

"Mamma," asked Lora, "is not Elsie to be allowed to go too?"

"Elsie is not my child, and I have nothing to say about it. Miss Day,
who knows all the circumstances, is much better able than I to judge
whether or no she is deserving of punishment," replied Mrs. Dinsmore,
sailing out of the room.

"You will let her go, Miss Day?" said Lora, inquiringly.

"Miss Lora," replied Miss Day, angrily, "I have already told you I was
not to be dictated to. I have said Elsie must remain at home, and I
shall not break my word."

"Such injustice!" muttered Lora, turning away.

"Lora," said Louise, impatiently, "why need you concern yourself with
Elsie's affairs? for my part, I have no pity for her, so full as she is
of nonsensical scruples."

Miss Day crossed the room to where Elsie was sitting leaning her head
upon the desk, struggling hard to keep down the feelings of anger and
indignation aroused by the unjust treatment she had received.

"Did I not order you to learn that lesson over?" said the governess,
"and why are you sitting here idling?"

Elsie dared not speak lest her anger should show itself in words; so
merely raised her head, and hastily brushing away her tears, opened the
book. But Miss Day, who was irritated by Mrs. Dinsmore's interference,
and also by the consciousness that she was acting unjustly, seemed
determined to vent her displeasure upon her innocent victim.

"Why do you not speak?" she exclaimed, seizing Elsie by the arm and
shaking her violently. "Answer me this instant. Why have you been
idling all the morning?"

"I have _not_," replied the child hastily, stung to the quick by her
unjust violence. "I have tried hard to do my duty, and you are
punishing me when I don't deserve it at all."

"How dare you? there! take that for your impertinence," said Miss Day,
giving her a box on the ear.

Elsie was about to make a still more angry reply; but she restrained
herself, and turning to her book, tried to study, though the hot,
blinding tears came so thick and fast that she could not see a letter.

"De carriage am waiting, ladies, an' missus in a hurry," said a
servant, opening the door; and Miss Day hastily quitted the room,
followed by Louise and Lora; and Elsie was left alone.

She laid down the geography, and opening her desk, took out a small
pocket Bible, which bore the marks of frequent use. She turned over the
leaves as though seeking for some particular passage; at length she
found it, and wiping away the blinding tears, she read these words in a
low, murmuring tone:

"For this is thankworthy, if a man for conscience toward God endure
grief, suffering wrongfully. For what glory is it if, when ye be
buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently? but if when ye do
well, and suffer for it, ye take it patiently, this is acceptable with
God. For even hereunto were ye called; because Christ also suffered for
us, leaving us an example that ye should follow His steps."

"Oh! I have not done it. I did not take it patiently. I am afraid I am
not following in His steps," she cried, bursting into an agony of tears
and sobs.

"My dear little girl, what is the matter?" asked a kind voice, and a
soft hand was gently laid on her shoulder.

The child looked up hastily. "O Miss Allison!" she said, "is it you? I
thought I was quite alone."

"And so you were, my dear, until this moment" replied the lady, drawing
up a chair, and sitting down close beside her. "I was on the veranda,
and hearing sobs, came in to see if I could be of any assistance. You
look very much distressed; will you not tell me the cause of your
sorrow?"

Elsie answered only by a fresh burst of tears.

"They have all gone to the fair and left you at home alone; perhaps to
learn a lesson you have failed in reciting?" said the lady, inquiringly.

"Yes, ma'am," said the child; "but that is not the worst;" and her
tears fell faster, as she laid the little Bible on the desk, and
pointed with her finger to the words she had been reading. "Oh!" she
sobbed, "I--I did not do it; I did not bear it patiently. I was treated
unjustly, and punished when I was not to blame, and I grew angry. Oh!
I'm afraid I shall never be like Jesus! never, never."

The child's distress seemed very great, and Miss Allison was extremely
surprised. She was a visitor who had been in the house only a few days,
and, herself a devoted Christian, had been greatly pained by the utter
disregard of the family in which she was sojourning for the teachings
of God's word. Rose Allison was from the North, and Mr. Dinsmore, the
proprietor of Roselands, was an old friend of her father, to whom he
had been paying a visit, and finding Rose in delicate health, he had
prevailed upon her parents to allow her to spend the winter months with
his family in the more congenial clime of their Southern home.

"My poor child," she said, passing her arm around the little one's
waist, "my poor little Elsie! that is your name, is it not?"

"Yes, ma'am; Elsie Dinsmore," replied the little girl.

"Well, Elsie, let me read you another verse from this blessed book.
Here it is: 'The blood of Jesus Christ his Son, cleanseth us from _all_
sin.' And here again: 'If any man sin, we have an advocate with the
Father Jesus Christ the righteous.' Dear Elsie, 'if we confess our
sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins.'"

"Yes, ma'am," said the child; "I have asked Him to forgive me, and I
know He has; but I am so sorry, oh! _so_ sorry that I have grieved and
displeased Him; for, O Miss Allison! I _do_ love Jesus, and want to be
like Him always."

"Yes, dear child, we must grieve for our sins when we remember that
they helped to slay the Lord. But I am very, very glad to learn that
you love Jesus, and are striving to do His will. I love Him too, and we
will love one another; for you know He says, 'By this shall men know
that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another,'" said Miss
Allison, stroking the little girl's hair, and kissing her tenderly.

"Will you love me? Oh! how glad I am," exclaimed the child joyfully; "I
have nobody to love me but poor old mammy."

"And who is mammy?" asked the lady.

"My dear old nurse, who has always taken care of me. Have you not seen
her, ma'am?"

"Perhaps I may. I have seen a number of nice old colored women about
here since I came. But, Elsie, will you tell me who taught you about
Jesus, and how long you have loved Him?"

"Ever since I can remember," replied the little girl earnestly; "and it
was dear old mammy who first told me how He suffered and died on the
cross for us." Her eyes filled with tears and her voice quivered with
emotion. "She used to talk to me about it just as soon as I could
understand anything," she continued; "and then she would tell me that
my own dear mamma loved Jesus, and had gone to be with Him in heaven;
and how, when she was dying, she put me--a little, wee baby, I was then
not quite a week old--into her arms, and said, 'Mammy, take my dear
little baby and love her, and take care of her just as you did of me;
and O mammy! be sure that you teach her to love God.' Would you like to
see my mamma, Miss Allison?"

And as she spoke she drew from her bosom a miniature set in gold and
diamonds, which she wore suspended by a gold chain around her neck, and
put it in Rose's hand.

It was the likeness of a young and blooming girl, not more than fifteen
or sixteen years of age. She was very beautiful, with a sweet, gentle,
winning countenance, the same soft hazel eyes and golden brown curls
that the little Elsie possessed; the same regular features, pure
complexion, and sweet smile.

Miss Allison gazed at it a moment in silent admiration; then turning
from it to the child with a puzzled expression, she said, "But, Elsie,
I do not understand; are you not sister to Enna and the rest, and is
not Mrs. Dinsmore own mother to them all?"

"Yes, ma'am, to all of them, but not to me nor my papa. Their brother
Horace is my papa, and so they are all my aunts and uncles."

"Indeed," said the lady, musingly; "I thought you looked very unlike
the rest. And your papa is away, is he not, Elsie?"

"Yes, ma'am; he is in Europe. He has been away almost ever since I was
born, and I have never seen him. Oh! how I do wish he would come home!
how I long to see him! Do you think he would love me, Miss Allison? Do
you think he would take me on his knee and pet me, as grandpa does
Enna?"

"I should think he would, dear; I don't know how he could help loving
his own dear little girl," said the lady, again kissing the little rosy
cheek. "But now," she added, rising, "I must go away and let you learn
your lesson."

Then taking up the little Bible, and turning over the leaves, she
asked, "Would you like to come to my room sometimes in the mornings and
evenings, and read this book with me, Elsie?"

"Oh! yes, ma'am, dearly!" exclaimed the child, her eyes sparkling with
pleasure.

"Come then this evening, if you like; and now goodbye for the present."
And pressing another kiss on the child's cheek, she left her and went
back to her own room, where she found her friend Adelaide Dinsmore, a
young lady near her own age, and the eldest daughter of the family.
Adelaide was seated on a sofa, busily employed with some fancy work.

"You see I am making myself quite at home," she said, looking up as
Rose entered. "I cannot imagine where you have been all this time."

"Can you not? In the school-room, talking with little Elsie. Do you
know, Adelaide, I thought she was your sister; but she tells me not."

"No, she is Horace's child. I supposed you knew; but if you do not, I
may just as well tell you the whole story. Horace was a very wild boy,
petted and spoiled, and always used to having his own way; and when he
was about seventeen--quite a forward youth he was too--he must needs go
to New Orleans to spend some months with a schoolmate; and there he
met, and fell desperately in love with, a very beautiful girl a year or
two younger than himself, an orphan and very wealthy. Fearing that
objections would be made on the score of their youth, etc., etc., he
persuaded her to consent to a private marriage, and they had been man
and wife for some months before either her friends or his suspected it.

"Well, when it came at last to papa's ears, he was very angry, both on
account of their extreme youth, and because, as Elsie Grayson's father
had made all his money by trade, he did not consider her quite my
brother's equal; so he called Horace home and sent him North to
college. Then he studied law, and since that he has been traveling in
foreign lands. But to return to his wife; it seems that her guardian
was quite as much opposed to the match as papa; and the poor girl was
made to believe that she should never see her husband again. All their
letters were intercepted, and finally she was told that he was dead;
so, as Aunt Chloe says, 'she grew thin and pale, and weak and
melancholy,' and while the little Elsie was yet not quite a week old,
she died. We never saw her; she died in her guardian's house, and there
the little Elsie stayed in charge of Aunt Chloe, who was an old servant
in the family, and had nursed her mother before her, and of the
housekeeper, Mrs. Murray, a pious old Scotch woman, until about four
years ago, when her guardian's death broke up the family, and then they
came to us. Horace never comes home, and does not seem to care for his
child, for he never mentions her in his letters, except when it is
necessary in the way of business."

"She is a dear little thing," said Rose. "I am sure he could not help
loving her, if he could only see her."

"Oh! yes, she is well enough, and I often feel sorry for the lonely
little thing, but the truth is, I believe we are a little jealous of
her; she is so extremely beautiful, and heiress to such an immense
fortune. Mamma often frets, and says that one of these days she will
quite eclipse her younger daughters."

"But then," said Rose, "she is almost as near; her own grand-daughter."

"No, she is not so very near," replied Adelaide, "for Horace is not
mamma's son. He was seven or eight years old when she married papa, and
I think she was never particularly fond of him."

"Ah! yes," thought Rose, "that explains it. Poor little Elsie! No
wonder you pine for your father's love, and grieve over the loss of the
mother you never knew!"

"She is an odd child," said Adelaide; "I don't understand her; she is
so meek and patient she will fairly let you trample upon her. It
provokes papa. He says she is no Dinsmore, or she would know how to
stand up for her own rights; and yet she has a temper, I know, for once
in a great while it shows itself for an instant--only an instant,
though, and at very long intervals--and then she grieves over it for
days, as though she had committed some great crime; while the rest of
us think nothing of getting angry half a dozen times in a day. And then
she is forever poring over that little Bible of hers; what she sees so
attractive in it I'm sure I cannot tell, for I must say I find it the
dullest of dull books."

"Do you," said Rose; "how strange! I had rather give up all other books
than that one. 'Thy testimonies have I taken as a heritage forever, for
they are the rejoicing of my heart,' 'How sweet are thy words unto my
taste! Yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth.'"

"Do you _really_ love it so, Rose?" asked Adelaide, lifting her eyes to
her friend's face with an expression of astonishment; "do tell me why?"

"For its exceeding great and precious promises Adelaide; for its holy
teachings; for its offers of peace and pardon and eternal life. I am a
sinner, Adelaide, lost, ruined, helpless, hopeless, and the Bible
brings me the glad news of salvation offered as a free, unmerited gift;
it tells me that Jesus died to save sinners--just such sinners as I. I
find that I have a heart deceitful above all things and desperately
wicked, and the blessed Bible tells me how that heart can be renewed,
and where I can obtain that holiness without which no man shall see the
Lord. I find myself utterly unable to keep God's holy law, and it tells
me of One who has kept it for me. I find that I deserve the wrath and
curse of a justly offended God, and it tells me of Him who was made a
curse for me. I find that all my righteousnesses are as filthy rags,
and it offers me the beautiful, spotless robe of Christ's perfect
righteousness. Yes, it tells me that God can be just, and the justifier
of him who believes in Jesus."

Rose spoke these words with deep emotion, then suddenly clasping her
hands and raising her eyes, she exclaimed, "'Thanks be unto God for His
unspeakable gift!'"

For a moment there was silence. Then Adelaide spoke:

"Rose," said she, "you talk as if you were a great sinner; but I don't
believe it; it is only your humility that makes you think so. Why, what
have you ever done? Had you been a thief, a murderer, or guilty of any
other great crime, I could see the propriety of your using such
language with regard to yourself; but for a refined, intelligent,
amiable young lady, excuse me for saying it, dear Rose, but such
language seems to me simply absurd."

"Man looketh upon the outward appearance, but the Lord pondereth the
heart," said Rose, gently. "No, dear Adelaide, you are mistaken; for I
can truly say 'mine iniquities have gone over my head as a cloud, and
my transgressions as a thick cloud.' Every duty has been stained with
sin, every motive impure, every thought unholy. From my earliest
existence, God has required the undivided love of my whole heart, soul,
strength, and mind; and so far from yielding it, I live at enmity with
Him, and rebellion against His government, until within the last two
years. For seventeen years He has showered blessings upon me, giving me
life, health, strength, friends, and all that was necessary for
happiness; and for fifteen of those years I returned Him nothing but
ingratitude and rebellion. For fifteen years I rejected His offers of
pardon and reconciliation, turned my back upon the Saviour of sinners,
and resisted all the strivings of God's Holy Spirit, and will you say
that I am not a great sinner?" Her voice quivered, and her eyes were
full of tears.

"Dear Rose," said Adelaide, putting her arm around her friend and
kissing her cheek affectionately, "don't think of these things;
religion is too gloomy for one so young as you."

"Gloomy, dear Adelaide!" replied Rose, returning the embrace; "I never
knew what true happiness was until I found Jesus. My sins often make me
sad, but religion, never.

   "'Oft I walk beneath the cloud,
    Dark as midnight's gloomy shroud;
    But when fear is at the height,
    Jesus comes, and all is light.'"




CHAPTER SECOND


   "Thy injuries would teach patience to blaspheme,
    Yet still thou art a dove."
                             --BEAUMONT'S _Double Marriage._


   "When forced to part from those we love,
      Though sure to meet to-morrow;
    We yet a kind of anguish prove
      And feel a touch of sorrow.
    But oh! what words can paint the fears
      When from these friends we sever,
    Perhaps to part for months--for years--
      Perhaps to part forever."
                                 --ANON.


When Miss Allison had gone, and Elsie found herself once more quite
alone, she rose from her chair, and kneeling down with the open Bible
before her, she poured out her story of sins and sorrows, in simple,
child-like words, into the ears of the dear Saviour whom she loved so
well; confessing that when she had done well and suffered for it, she
had not taken it patiently, and earnestly pleading that she might be
made like unto the meek and lowly Jesus. Low sobs burst from her
burdened heart, and the tears of penitence fell upon the pages of the
holy book. But when she rose from her knees, her load of sin and sorrow
was all gone, and her heart made light and happy with a sweet sense of
peace and pardon. Once again, as often before, the little Elsie was
made to experience the blessedness of "the man whose transgression is
forgiven, whose sin is covered."

She now set to work diligently at her studies, and ere the party
returned was quite prepared to meet Miss Day, having attended
faithfully to all she had required of her. The lesson was recited
without the smallest mistake, every figure of the examples worked out
correctly, and the page of the copy-book neatly and carefully written.

Miss Day had been in a very captious mood all day, and seemed really
provoked that Elsie had not given her the smallest excuse for
fault-finding. Handing the book back to her, she said, very coldly, "I
see you can do your duties well enough when you choose."

Elsie felt keenly the injustice of the remark, and longed to say that
she had tried quite as earnestly in the morning; but she resolutely
crushed down the indignant feeling, and calling to mind the rash words
that had cost her so many repentant tears, she replied meekly, "I am
sorry I did not succeed better this morning, Miss Day, though I did
really try; and I am still more sorry for the saucy answer I gave you;
and I ask your pardon for it."

"You _ought_ to be sorry," replied Miss Day, severely, "and I hope you
are; for it was a very impertinent speech indeed, and deserving of a
much more severe punishment than you received. Now go, and never let me
hear anything of the kind from you again."

Poor little Elsie's eyes filled with tears at these ungracious words,
accompanied by a still more ungracious manner; but she turned away
without a word, and placing her books and slate carefully in her desk,
left the room.

Rose Allison was sitting alone in her room that evening, thinking of
her far-distant home, when hearing a gentle rap at her door, she rose
and opened it to find Elsie standing there with her little Bible in her
hand.

"Come in, darling," she said, stooping to give the little one a kiss;
"I am very glad to see you."

"I may stay with you for half an hour, Miss Allison, if you like," said
the child, seating herself on the low ottoman pointed out by Rose, "and
then mammy is coming to put me to bed."

"It will be a very pleasant half-hour to both of us, I hope," replied
Rose, opening her Bible.

They read a chapter together--Rose now and then pausing to make a few
explanations--and then kneeling down, she offered up a prayer for the
teachings of the Spirit, and for God's blessing on themselves and all
their dear ones.

"Dear little Elsie," she said, folding the child in her arms, when they
had risen from their knees, "how I love you already, and how very glad
I am to find that there is one in this house beside myself who loves
Jesus, and loves to study His word, and to call upon His name."

"Yes, dear Miss Allison; and there is _more_ than one, for mammy loves
Him, too, very dearly," replied the little girl, earnestly.

"Does she, darling? Then I must love her, too, for I cannot help loving
all who love my Saviour."

Then Rose sat down, and drawing the little girl to a seat on her knee,
they talked sweetly together of the race they were running, and the
prize they hoped to obtain at the end of it; of the battle they were
fighting, and the invisible foes with whom they were called to
struggle--the armor that had been provided, and of Him who had promised
to be the Captain of their salvation, and to bring them off more than
conquerors. They were pilgrims in the same straight and narrow way, and
it was very pleasant thus to walk a little while together. "Then they
that feared the Lord spake often one to another; and the Lord hearkened
and heard it; and a book of remembrance was written before Him for them
that feared the Lord, and that thought upon His name. And they shall be
mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels;
and I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son that serveth him."

"That is mammy coming for me," said Elsie, as a low knock was heard at
the door.

"Come in," said Rose, and the door opened, and a very nice colored
woman of middle age, looking beautifully neat in her snow-white apron
and turban, entered with a low courtesy, asking, "Is my little missus
ready for bed now?"

"Yes," said Elsie, jumping off Rose's lap; "but come here, mammy; I
want to introduce you to Miss Allison."

"How do you do, Aunt Chloe? I am very glad to know you, since Elsie
tells me you are a servant of the same blessed Master whom I love and
try to serve," said Rose, putting her small white hand cordially into
Chloe's dusky one.

"'Deed I hope I is, missus," replied Chloe, pressing it fervently in
both of hers. "I's only a poor old black sinner, but de good Lord
Jesus, He loves me jes de same as if I was white, an' I love Him an'
all His chillen with all my heart."

"Yes, Aunt Chloe," said Rose, "He is our peace, and hath made both one,
and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us; so that
we are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow-citizens with the
saints and of the household of God; and are built upon the foundation
of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief
corner-stone."

"Yes, missus, dat's it for sure; ole Chloe knows dat's in de Bible; an'
if we be built on dat bressed corner-stone, we's safe ebery one; I'se
heard it many's de time, an' it fills dis ole heart with joy an' peace
in believing," she exclaimed, raising her tearful eyes and clasping her
hands. "But good night, missus; I must put my chile to bed," she added,
taking Elsie's hand.

"Good-night, Aunt Chloe; come in again," said Rose. "And good-night to
you, too, dear little Elsie," folding the little girl again in her arms.

"Ain't dat a bressed young lady, darlin'!" exclaimed Chloe, earnestly,
as she began the business of preparing her young charge for bed.

"O mammy, I love her so much! she's so good and kind," replied the
child, "and she loves Jesus, and loves to talk about Him."

"She reminds me of your dear mamma, Miss Elsie, but she's not so
handsome," replied the nurse, with a tear in her eye; "ole Chloe tinks
dere's nebber any lady so beautiful as her dear young missus was."

Elsie drew out the miniature and kissed it, murmuring, "Dear, darling
mamma," then put it back in her bosom again, for she always wore it day
and night. She was standing in her white night-dress, the tiny white
feet just peeping from under it, while Chloe brushed back her curls and
put on her night-cap.

"Dere now, darlin', you's ready for bed," she exclaimed, giving the
child a hug and a kiss.

"No, mammy, not quite," replied the little girl, and gliding away to
the side of the bed, she knelt down and offered up her evening prayer.
Then, coming back to the toilet table, she opened her little Bible,
saying, "Now, mammy, I will read you a chapter while you are getting
ready for bed."

The room was large and airy, and Aunt Chloe, who was never willing to
leave her nursling, but watched over her night and day with the most
devoted affection, slept in a cot bed in one corner.

"Tank you, my dear young missus, you's berry good," she said, beginning
the preparations for the night by taking off her turban and replacing
it by a thick night-cap.

When the chapter was finished Elsie got into bed, saying, "Now, mammy,
you may put out the light as soon as you please; and be sure to call me
early in the morning, for I have a lesson to learn before breakfast."

"That I will, darlin'," replied the old woman, spreading the cover
carefully over her. "Good-night, my pet, your ole mammy hopes her chile
will have pleasant dreams."

Rose Allison was an early riser, and as the breakfast hour at Roselands
was eight o'clock, she always had an hour or two for reading before it
was time to join the family circle. She had asked Elsie to come to her
at half-past seven, and punctually at the hour the little girl's gentle
rap was heard at her door.

"Come in," said Rose, and Elsie entered, looking as bright and fresh
and rosy as the morning. She had her little Bible under her arm, and a
bouquet of fresh flowers in her hand. "Good-morning, dear Miss
Allison," she said, dropping a graceful courtesy as she presented it.
"I have come to read, and I have just been out to gather these for you,
because I know you love flowers."

"Thank you, darling, they are very lovely," said Rose, accepting the
gift and bestowing a caress upon the giver. "You are quite punctual,"
she added, "and now we can have our half-hour together before
breakfast."

The time was spent profitably and pleasantly, and passed so quickly
that both were surprised when the breakfast bell rang.

Miss Allison spent the whole fall and winter at Roselands; and it was
very seldom during all that time that she and Elsie failed to have
their morning and evening reading and prayer together. Rose was often
made to wonder at the depth of the little girl's piety and the
knowledge of divine things she possessed. But Elsie had had the best of
teaching. Chloe, though entirely uneducated, was a simple-minded,
earnest Christian, and with a heart full of love to Jesus, had, as we
have seen, early endeavored to lead the little one to Him, and Mrs.
Murray--the housekeeper whom Adelaide had mentioned, and who had
assisted Chloe in the care of the child from the time of her birth
until a few months before Rose's coming, when she had suddenly been
summoned home to Scotland--had proved a very faithful friend. She was
an intelligent woman and devotedly pious, and had carefully instructed
this lonely little one, for whom she felt almost a parent's affection,
and her efforts to bring her to a saving knowledge of Christ had been
signally owned and blessed of God; and in answer to her earnest
prayers, the Holy Spirit had vouchsafed His teachings, without which
all human instruction must ever be in vain. And young as Elsie was, she
had already a very lovely and well-developed Christian character.
Though not a remarkably precocious child in other respects, she seemed
to have very clear and correct views on almost every subject connected
with her duty to God and her neighbor; was very truthful both in word
and deed, very strict in her observance of the Sabbath--though the rest
of the family were by no means particular in that respect--very
diligent in her studies, respectful to superiors, and kind to inferiors
and equals; and she was gentle, sweet-tempered, patient, and forgiving
to a remarkable degree. Rose became strongly attached to her, and the
little girl fully returned her affection.

Elsie was very sensitive and affectionate, and felt keenly the want of
sympathy and love, for which, at the time of Rose's coming, she had no
one to look to but poor old Chloe, who loved her with all her heart.

It is true, Adelaide sometimes treated her almost affectionately, and
Lora, who had a very strong sense of justice, occasionally interfered
and took her part when she was very unjustly accused, but no one seemed
really to care for her, and she often felt sad and lonely. Mr.
Dinsmore, though her own grandfather, treated her with entire neglect,
seemed to have not the slightest affection for her, and usually spoke
of her as "old Crayson's grandchild." Mrs. Dinsmore really disliked
her, because she looked upon her as the child of a stepson for whom she
had never felt any affection, and also as the future rival of her own
children; while the governess and the younger members of the family,
following the example of their elders, treated her with neglect, and
occasionally even with abuse. Miss Day, knowing that she was in no
danger of incurring the displeasure of her superiors by so doing,
vented upon her all the spite she dared not show to her other pupils;
and continually she was made to give up her toys and pleasures to Enna,
and even sometimes to Arthur and Walter. It often cost her a struggle,
and had she possessed less of the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit,
her life had been wretched indeed.

But in spite of all her trials and vexations, little Elsie was the
happiest person in the family; for she had in her heart that peace
which the world can neither give nor take away; that joy which the
Saviour gives to His own, and no man taketh from them. She constantly
carried all her sorrows and troubles to Him, and the coldness and
neglect of others seemed but to drive her nearer to that Heavenly
Friend, until she felt that while possessed of His love, she could not
be unhappy, though treated with scorn and abuse by all the world.

   "The good are better made by ill,
    As odors crushed are sweeter still;"

And even so it seemed to be with little Elsie; her trials seemed to
have only the effect of purifying and making more lovely her naturally
amiable character.

Elsie talked much and thought more of her absent and unknown father,
and longed with an intensity of desire for his return home. It was her
dream, by day and by night, that he had come, that he had taken her to
his heart, calling her "his own darling child, his precious little
Elsie;" for such were the loving epithets she often heard lavished upon
Enna, and which she longed to hear addressed to herself. But from month
to month, and year to year, that longed-for return had been delayed
until the little heart had grown sick with hope deferred, and was often
weary with its almost hopeless waiting. But to return.

"Elsie," said Adelaide, as Miss Allison and the little girl entered the
breakfast-room on the morning after Elsie's disappointment, "the fair
is not over yet, and Miss Allison and I are going to ride out there
this afternoon; so, if you are a good girl in school, you may go with
us."

"Oh! thank you, dear Aunt Adelaide," exclaimed the little girl,
clapping her hands with delight; "how kind you are! and I shall be so
glad."

Miss Day frowned, and looked as if she wanted to reprove her for her
noisy demonstrations of delight, but, standing somewhat in awe of
Adelaide, said nothing.

But Elsie suddenly relapsed into silence, for at that moment Mrs.
Dinsmore entered the room, and it was seldom that she could utter a
word in her presence without being reproved and told that "children
should be seen and not heard," though her own were allowed to talk as
much as they pleased.

Miss Day seemed cross, Mrs. Dinsmore was moody and taciturn,
complaining of headache, and Mr. Dinsmore occupied with the morning
paper; and so the meal passed off in almost unbroken silence. Elsie was
glad when it was over, and hastening to the school-room, she began her
tasks without waiting for the arrival of the regular hour for study.

She had the room entirely to herself, and had been busily engaged for
half an hour in working out her examples, when the opening of the door
caused her to look up, and, to her dismay, Arthur entered. He did not,
however, as she feared, begin his customary course of teasing and
tormenting, but seated himself at his desk, leaning his head upon his
hand in an attitude of dejection.

Elsie wondered what ailed him, his conduct was so unusual, and she
could not help every now and then sending an inquiring glance toward
him, and at length she asked, "What is the matter, Arthur?"

"Nothing much," said he, gruffly, turning his back to her.

Thus repulsed, she said no more, but gave her undivided attention to
her employment; and so diligent was she, that Miss Day had no excuse
whatever for fault-finding this morning. Her tasks were all completed
within the required time, and she enjoyed her promised ride with her
aunt and Miss Allison, and her visit to the fair, very much indeed.

It was still early when they returned; and finding that she had nearly
an hour to dispose of before tea-time, Elsie thought she would finish a
drawing which she had left in her desk in the school-room. While
searching for it and her pencil, she heard Lora's and Arthur's voices
on the veranda.

She did not notice what they were saying, until her own name struck her
ear.

"Elsie is the only person," Lora was saying, "who can, and probably
will, help you; for she has plenty of money, and she is so kind and
generous; but, if I were you, I should be ashamed to ask her, after the
way you acted toward her."

"I wish I hadn't teased her so yesterday," replied Arthur,
disconsolately, "but it's such fun, I can't help it sometimes."

"Well, I know I wouldn't ask a favor of anybody I had treated so," said
Lora, walking away.

Elsie sat still a few moments, working at her drawing and wondering all
the time what it was Arthur wanted, and thinking how glad she would be
of an opportunity of returning him good for evil. She did not like,
though, to seek his confidence, but presently hearing him heave a deep
sigh, she rose and went out on the veranda.

He was leaning on the railing in an attitude of dejection, his head
bent down and his eyes fixed on the floor. She went up to him, and
laying her hand softly on his shoulder, said, in the sweet, gentle
tones natural to her. "What ails you, Arthur? Can I do anything for
you? I will be very glad if I can."

"No--yes--" he answered hesitatingly; "I wouldn't like to ask you
after--after--"

"Oh! never mind," said Elsie, quickly; "I do not care anything about
that now. I had the ride to-day, and that was better still, because I
went with Aunt Adelaide and Miss Allison. Tell me what you want."

Thus encouraged, Arthur replied, "I saw a beautiful little ship
yesterday when I was in the city; it was only five dollars, and I've
set my heart on having it, but my pocket money's all gone, and papa
won't give me a cent until next month's allowance is due; and by that
time the ship will be gone, for it's such a beauty somebody'll be sure
to buy it."

"Won't your mamma buy it for you?" asked Elsie.

"No, she says she hasn't the money to spare just now. You know it's
near the end of the month, and they've all spent their allowances
except Louise, and she says she'll not lend her money to such a
spendthrift as I am."

Elsie drew out her purse, and seemed just about to put it into his
hand; but, apparently changing her mind, she hesitated a moment, and
then returning it to her pocket, said, with a half smile, "I don't
know, Arthur; five dollars is a good deal for a little girl like me to
lay out at once. I must think about it a little."

"I don't ask you to _give_ it," he replied scornfully; "I'll pay it
back in two weeks."

"Well, I will see by to-morrow morning," she said, darting away, while
he sent an angry glance after her, muttering the word "stingy" between
his teeth.

Elsie ran down to the kitchen, asking of one and another of the
servants as she passed, "Where's Pompey?" The last time she put the
question to Phoebe, the cook, but was answered by Pompey himself. "Here
am Pomp, Miss Elsie; what does little missy want wid dis chile?"

"Are you going to the city to-night, Pompey?"

"Yes, Miss Elsie, I'se got some arrants to do for missus an' de family
in ginral, an' I ben gwine start in 'bout ten minutes. Little missy
wants sumpin', eh?"

Elsie motioned to him to come close to her, and then putting her purse
into his hands, she told him in a whisper of Arthur's wish, and
directed him to purchase the coveted toy, and bring it to her, if
possible, without letting any one else know anything about it. "And
keep half a dollar for yourself, Pompey, to pay you for your trouble,"
she added in conclusion.

"Tank you, little missy," he replied, with a broad grin of
satisfaction; "dat be berry good pay, and Pomp am de man to do dis
business up for you 'bout right."

The tea-bell rang, and Elsie hastened away to answer the summons. She
looked across the table at Arthur with a pleasant smile on her
countenance, but he averted his eyes with an angry scowl; and with a
slight sigh she turned away her head, and did not look at him again
during the meal.

Pompey executed his commission faithfully; and when Elsie returned to
her own room after her evening hour with Miss Rose, Chloe pointed out
the little ship standing on the mantel.

"Oh! it's a little beauty," cried Elsie, clapping her hands and dancing
up and down with delight; "how Arthur will be pleased! Now, mammy, can
you take it to the school-room, and put it on Master Arthur's desk,
without anybody seeing you?"

"Ole Chloe'll try, darlin," she said, taking it in her hands.

"Oh! wait one moment," exclaimed Elsie, and taking a card, she wrote on
it, "A present to Arthur, from his niece Elsie." Then laying it on the
deck of the little vessel. "There, mammy," she said, "I think that will
do; but please look out first to see whether any one is in the hall."

"Coast all clear, darlin'," replied Chloe, after a careful survey; "all
de chillens am in bed before dis time, I spec." And taking a candle in
one hand and the little ship in the other, she started for the
school-room. She soon returned with a broad grin of satisfaction on her
black face, saying, "All right, darlin', I put him on Massa Arthur's
desk, an' nobody de wiser."

So Elsie went to bed very happy in the thought of the pleasure Arthur
would have in receiving her present.

She was hurrying down to the breakfast-room the next morning, a little
in advance of Miss Rose, who had stopped to speak to Adelaide, when
Arthur came running up behind her, having just come in by a side door
from the garden, and seizing her round the waist, he said, "Thank you,
Elsie; you're a real good girl! She sails beautifully. I've been trying
her on the pond. But it mustn't be a _present;_ you must let me pay you
back when I get my allowance."

"Oh! no, Arthur, that would spoil it all," she answered quickly; "you
are entirely welcome, and you know my allowance is so large that half
the time I have more money than I know how to spend."

"I should like to see the time that would be the case with me," said
he, laughing. Then in a lower tone, "Elsie, I'm sorry I teased you so.
I'll not do it again soon."

Elsie answered him with a grateful look, as she stepped past him and
quietly took her place at the table.

Arthur kept his word, and for many weeks entirely refrained from
teasing Elsie, and while freed from that annoyance she was always able
to have her tasks thoroughly prepared; and though her governess was
often unreasonable and exacting, and there was scarcely a day in which
she was not called upon to yield her own wishes or pleasures, or in
some way to inconvenience herself to please Walter or Enna, or
occasionally the older members of the family, yet it was an unusually
happy winter to her, for Rose Allison's love and uniform kindness shed
sunshine on her path. She had learned to yield readily to others, and
when fretted or saddened by unjust or unkind treatment, a few moments
alone with her precious Bible and her loved Saviour made all right
again, and she would come from those sweet communings looking as
serenely happy as if she had never known an annoyance. She was a wonder
to all the family. Her grandfather would sometimes look at her as,
without a frown or a pout, she would give up her own wishes to Enna,
and shaking his head, say, "She's no Dinsmore, or she would know how to
stand up for her own rights better than that. _I_ don't like such
tame-spirited people. She's not Horace's child; it never was an easy
matter to impose upon or conquer him. He was a boy of spirit."

"What a strange child Elsie is?" Adelaide remarked to her friend one
day. "I am often surprised to see how sweetly she gives up to all of
us; really she has a lovely temper. I quite envy her; it was always
hard for me to give up my own way."

"I do not believe it was easy for her at first," said Rose. "I think
her sweet disposition is the fruit of a work of grace in her heart. It
is the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which God alone can bestow."

"I wish I had it, then," said Adelaide, sighing.

"You have only to go to the right source to obtain it, dear Adelaide,"
replied her friend, gently.

"And yet," said Adelaide, "I must say I sometimes think that, as papa
says, there is something mean-spirited and cowardly in always giving up
to other people."

"It would indeed be cowardly and wrong to give up _principle_," replied
Rose, "but surely it is noble and generous to give up our own wishes to
another, where no principle is involved."

"Certainly, you are right," said Adelaide, musingly. "And now I
recollect that, readily as Elsie gives up her own wishes to others on
ordinary occasions, I have never known her to sacrifice principle; but,
on the contrary, she has several times made mamma excessively angry by
refusing to romp and play with Enna on the Sabbath, or to deceive papa
when questioned with regard to some of Arthur's misdeeds; yet she has
often borne the blame of his faults, when she might have escaped by
telling of him. Elsie is certainly very different from any of the rest
of us, and if it is piety that makes her what she is, I think piety is
a very lovely thing."

Elsie's mornings were spent in the school-room; in the afternoon she
walked, or rode out, sometimes in company with her young uncles and
aunts, and sometimes alone, a negro boy following at a respectful
distance, as a protector. In the evening there was almost always
company in the parlor, and she found it pleasanter to sit beside the
bright wood-fire in her own room, with her fond old nurse for a
companion, than to stay there, or with the younger ones in the
sitting-room or nursery. If she had no lesson to learn, she usually
read aloud to Chloe, as she sat knitting by the fire, and the Bible was
the book generally preferred by both; and then when she grew weary of
reading, she would often take a stool, and sitting down close to Chloe,
put her head in her lap, saying, "Now, mammy, tell me about mamma."

And then for the hundredth time or more the old woman would go over the
story of the life and death of her "dear young missus," as she always
called her; telling of her beauty, her goodness, and of her sorrows and
sufferings during the last year of her short life.

It was a story which never lost its charm for Elsie; a story which the
one never wearied of telling, nor the other of hearing. Elsie would sit
listening, with her mother's miniature in her hand, gazing at it with
tearful eyes, then press it to her lips, murmuring, "My own mamma;
poor, dear mamma." And when Chloe had finished that story she would
usually say, "Now, mammy, tell me all about papa."

But upon this subject Chloe had very little information to give. She
knew him only as a gay, handsome young stranger, whom she had seen
occasionally during a few months, and who had stolen all the sunshine
from her beloved young mistress' life, and left her to die alone; yet
she did not blame him when speaking to his child, for the young wife
had told her that he had not forsaken her of his own free choice; and
though she could not quite banish from her own mind the idea that he
had not been altogether innocent in the matter, she breathed no hint of
it to Elsie; for Chloe was a sensible woman, and knew that to lead the
little one to think ill of her only remaining parent would but tend to
make her unhappy.

Sometimes Elsie would ask very earnestly, "Do you thing papa loves
Jesus, mammy?" And Chloe would reply with a doubtful shake of the head,
"Dunno, darlin'; but ole Chloe prays for him ebery day."

"And so do I," Elsie would answer; "dear, dear papa, how I wish he
would come home!"

And so the winter glided away, and spring came, and Miss Allison must
soon return home. It was now the last day of March, and her departure
had been fixed for the second of April. For a number of weeks Elsie had
been engaged, during all her spare moments, in knitting a purse for
Rose, wishing to give her something which was the work of her own
hands, knowing that as such it would be more prized by her friend than
a costlier gift. She had just returned from her afternoon ride, and
taking out her work she sat down to finish it. She was in her own room,
with no companion but Chloe, who sat beside her knitting as usual.

Elsie worked on silently for some time, then suddenly holding up her
purse, she exclaimed, "See, mammy, it is all done but putting on the
tassel! Isn't it pretty? and won't dear Miss Allison be pleased with
it?"

It really was very pretty indeed, of crimson and gold, and beautifully
knit, and Chloe, looking at it with admiring eyes, said, "I spec she
will, darlin'. I tink it's berry handsome."

At this moment Enna opened the door and came in.

Elsie hastily attempted to conceal the purse by thrusting it into her
pocket, but it was too late, for Enna had seen it, and running toward
her, cried out, "Now, Elsie, just give that to me!"

"No, Enna," replied Elsie, mildly, "I cannot let you have it, because
it is for Miss Rose."

"I will have it," exclaimed the child, resolutely, "and if you don't
give it to me at once I shall just go and tell mamma."

"I will let you take it in your hand a few moments to look at it, if
you will be careful not to soil it, Enna," said Elsie, in the same
gentle tone; "and if you wish, I will get some more silk and beads, and
make you one just like it; but I cannot give you this, because I would
not have time to make another for Miss Rose."

"No, I shall just have that one; and I shall have it to keep," said
Enna, attempting to snatch it out of Elsie's hand.

But Elsie held it up out of her reach, and after trying several times
in vain to get it, Enna left the room, crying and screaming with
passion.

Chloe locked the door, saying, "Great pity, darlin', we forgot to do
dat 'fore Miss Enna came. I'se 'fraid she gwine bring missus for make
you gib um up."

Elsie sat down to her work again, but she was very pale, and her little
hands trembled with agitation, and her soft eyes were full of tears.

Chloe's fears were but too well founded; for the next moment hasty
steps were heard in the passage, and the handle of the door was laid
hold of with no very gentle grasp; and then, as it refused to yield to
her touch, Mrs. Dinsmore's voice was heard in an angry tone giving the
command, "Open this door instantly."

Chloe looked at her young mistress.

"You will have to," said Elsie, tearfully, slipping her work into her
pocket again, and lifting up her heart in prayer for patience and
meekness, for she well knew she would have need of both.

Mrs. Dinsmore entered, leading the sobbing Enna by the hand; her face
was flushed with passion, and addressing Elsie in tones of violent
anger, she asked, "What is the meaning of all this, you
good-for-nothing hussy? Why are you always tormenting this poor child?
Where is that paltry trifle that all this fuss is about? let me see it
this instant."

Elsie drew the purse from her pocket, saying in tearful, trembling
tones, "It is a purse I was making for Miss Rose, ma'am; and I offered
to make another just like it for Enna; but I cannot give her this one,
because there would not be time to make another before Miss Rose goes
away."

"You _can_ not give it to her, indeed! You _will_ not, you mean; but I
say you _shall;_ and I'll see if I'm not mistress in my own house. Give
it to the child this instant; I'll not have her crying her eyes out
that you may be humored in all your whims. There are plenty of
handsomer ones to be had in the city, and if you are too mean to make
her a present of it, I'll buy you another to-morrow."

"But that would not be my work, and this is," replied Elsie, still
retaining the purse, loath to let it go.

"Nonsense! what difference will that make to Miss Rose?" said Mrs.
Dinsmore; and snatching it out of her hand, she gave it to Enna,
saying, "There, my pet, you shall have it. Elsie is a naughty, mean,
stingy girl, but she shan't plague you while your mamma's about."

Enna cast a look of triumph at Elsie, and ran off with her prize,
followed by her mother, while poor Elsie hid her face in Chloe's lap
and cried bitterly.

It required all Chloe's religion to keep down her anger and indignation
at this unjust and cruel treatment of her darling, and for a few
moments she allowed her to sob and cry without a word, only soothing
her with mute caresses, not daring to trust her voice, lest her anger
should find vent in words. But at length, when her feelings had grown
somewhat calmer, she said soothingly, "Nebber mind it, my poor darlin'
chile. Just go to de city and buy de prettiest purse you can find, for
Miss Rose."

But Elsie shook her head sadly. "I wanted it to be my own work," she
sobbed, "and now there is no time."

"Oh! I'll tell you what, my pet," exclaimed Chloe suddenly, "dere's de
purse you was aknittin' for your papa, an' dey wouldn't send it for
you; you can get dat done for de lady, and knit another for your papa,
'fore he comes home."

Elsie raised her head with a look of relief, but her face clouded
again, as she replied, "But it is not quite done, and I haven't the
beads to finish it with, and Miss Rose goes day after to-morrow."

"Nebber mind dat, darlin'," said Chloe, jumping up; "Pomp he been gwine
to de city dis berry afternoon, an' we'll tell him to buy de beads, an'
den you can get de purse finished 'fore to-morrow night, an' de lady
don't go till de next day, an' so it gwine all come right yet."

"Oh! yes, that will do; dear old mammy, I'm so glad you thought of it,"
said Elsie, joyfully. And rising, she went to her bureau, and unlocking
a drawer, took from it a bead purse of blue and gold, quite as handsome
as the one of which she had been so ruthlessly despoiled, and rolling
it up in a piece of paper, she handed it to Chloe, saying: "There,
mammy, please give it to Pomp, and tell him to match the beads and the
silk exactly."

Chloe hastened in search of Pomp, but when she found him, he insisted
that he should not have time to attend to Miss Elsie's commission and
do his other errands; and Chloe, knowing that he, in common with all
the other servants, was very fond of the little girl, felt satisfied
that it was not merely an excuse, therefore did not urge her request.
She stood a moment in great perplexity, then suddenly exclaimed, "I'll
go myself. Miss Elsie will spare me, an' I'll go right long wid you,
Pomp."

Chloe was entirely Elsie's servant, having no other business than to
wait upon her and take care of her clothing and her room; and the
little girl, of course, readily gave her permission to accompany Pomp
and do the errand.

But it was quite late ere Chloe returned, and the little girl spent the
evening alone in her own room. She was sadly disappointed that she
could not even have her hour with Miss Rose, who was detained in the
parlor with company whom she could not leave, and so the evening seemed
very long and wore away very slowly.

But at last Chloe came, and in answer to her eager inquiries displayed
her purchases with great satisfaction, saying, "Yes, darlin', I'se got
de berry t'ings you wanted."

"Oh! yes," said Elsie, examining them with delight; "they are just
right; and now I can finish it in a couple of hours."

"Time to get ready for bed now, ain't it, pet?" asked Chloe; but before
the little girl had time to answer, a servant knocked at the door, and
handed in a note for her. It was from Miss Allison, and, hastily
tearing it open, she read:

"DEAR ELSIE--I am very sorry that we cannot have our reading together
this evening; but be sure, darling, to come to me early in the morning;
it will be our last opportunity, for, dear child, I have another
disappointment for you. I had not expected to leave before day after
to-morrow, but I have learned this evening that the vessel sails a day
sooner than I had supposed, and therefore I shall be obliged to start
on my journey to-morrow.

"Your friend,                                              ROSE."

Elsie dropped the note on the floor and burst into tears.

"What de matter, darlin'?" asked Chloe, anxiously.

"Oh! Miss Rose, dear, _dear_ Miss Rose is going tomorrow," she sobbed.
Then hastily drying her eyes, she said: "But I have no time for crying.
I must sit up and finish the purse to-night, because there will not be
time to-morrow."

It was long past her usual hour for retiring when at last her task, or
rather her labor of love, was completed. Yet she was up betimes, and at
the usual hour her gentle rap was heard at Miss Allison's door.

Rose clasped her in her arms and kissed her tenderly.

"O Miss Rose! _dear, dear_ Miss Rose, what shall I do without you?"
sobbed the little girl. "I shall have nobody to love me now but mammy."

"You have another and a better friend, dear Elsie, who has said, 'I
will never leave thee, nor forsake thee,'" whispered Rose, with another
tender caress.

"Yes," said Elsie, wiping away her tears; "and He is your Friend, too;
and don't you think, Miss Rose, He will bring us together again some
day?"

"I hope so indeed, darling. We must keep very close to Him, dear Elsie;
we must often commune with Him in secret; often study His word, and try
always to do His will. Ah! dear child, if we can only have the
assurance that that dear Friend is with us--that we have His presence
and His love, we shall be supremely happy, though separated from all
earthly friends. I know, dear little one, that you have peculiar
trials, and that you often feel the want of sympathy and love; but you
may always find them in Jesus. And now we will have our reading and
prayer as usual."

She took the little girl in her lap, and opening the Bible, read aloud
the fourteenth chapter of John, a part of that touching farewell of our
Saviour to His sorrowing disciples; and then they knelt to pray. Elsie
was only a listener, for her little heart was too full to allow her to
be anything more.

"My poor darling!" Rose said, again taking her in her arms, "we will
hope to meet again before very long. Who knows but your papa may come
home, and some day bring you to see me. It seems not unlikely, as he is
so fond of traveling."

Elsie looked up, smiling through her tears, "Oh! how delightful that
would be," she said. "But it seems as though my papa would never come,"
she added, with a deep-drawn sigh.

"Well, darling, we can hope," Rose answered cheerfully. "And, dear
child, though we must be separated in body for a time, we can still
meet in spirit at the mercy-seat. Shall we not do so at this hour every
morning?"

Elsie gave a joyful assent.

"And I shall write to you, darling," Rose said; "I will write on my
journey, if I can, so that you will get the letter in a week from the
time I leave; and then you must write to me; will you?"

"If you won't care for the mistakes, Miss Rose. But you know I am a
very little girl, and I wouldn't like to let Miss Day read my letter to
you, to correct it. But I shall be so very glad to get yours. I never
had a letter in my life."

"I sha'n't care for mistakes at all, dear, and no one shall see your
letters but myself," said Rose, kissing her. "I should be as sorry as
you to have Miss Day look at them."

Elsie drew out the purse and put it in her friend's hand, saying: "It
is all my own work, dear Miss Rose; I thought you would value it more
for that."

"And indeed I shall, darling," replied Rose, with tears of pleasure in
her eyes. "It is beautiful in itself, but I shall value it ten times
more because it is your gift, and the work of your own dear little
hands."

But the breakfast-bell now summoned them to join the rest of the
family, and, in a few moments after they left the table, the carriage
which was to take Rose to the city was at the door. Rose had endeared
herself to all, old and young, and they were loath to part with her.
One after another bade her an affectionate farewell. Elsie was the
last. Rose pressed her tenderly to her bosom, and kissed her again and
again, saying, in a voice half choked with grief, "God bless and keep
you, my poor little darling; my dear, dear little Elsie!"

Elsie could not speak; and the moment the carriage had rolled away with
her friend, she went to her own room, and locking herself in, cried
long and bitterly. She had learned to love Rose very dearly, and to
lean upon her very much; and now the parting from her, with no
certainty of ever meeting her again in this world, was the severest
trial the poor child had ever known.




CHAPTER THIRD


   "The morning blush was lighted up by hope--
    The hope of meeting him."
                                 --Miss LANDON.

   "Unkindness, do thy office; poor heart, break."


A week had now passed away since Miss Allison's departure, and Elsie,
to whom it had been a sad and lonely one, was beginning to look eagerly
for her first letter.

"It is just a week to-day since Rose left," remarked Adelaide at the
breakfast table, "and I think we ought to hear from her soon. She
promised to write on her journey. Ah! here comes Pomp with the letters
now," she added, as the servant man entered the room bearing in his
hand the bag in which he always brought the letters of the family from
the office in the neighboring city, whither he was sent every morning.

"Pomp, you are late this morning," said Mrs. Dinsmore.

"Yes, missus," replied the negro, scratching his head, "de horses am
berry lazy; spec dey's got de spring fever."

"Do make haste, papa, and see if there is not one from Rose," said
Adelaide coaxingly, as her father took the bag, and very deliberately
adjusted his spectacles before opening it.

"Have patience, young lady," said he. "Yes, here is a letter for you,
and one for Elsie," tossing them across the table as he spoke.

Elsie eagerly seized hers and ran away to her own room to read it. It
was a feast to her, this first letter, and from such a dear friend,
too. It gave her almost as much pleasure for the moment as Miss Rose's
presence could have afforded.

She had just finished its perusal and was beginning it again, when she
heard Adelaide's voice calling her by name, and the next moment she
entered the room, saying: "Well, Elsie, I suppose you have read your
letter; and now I have another piece of news for you. Can you guess
what it is?" she asked, looking at her with a strange smile.

"Oh! no, Aunt Adelaide; please tell me. Is dear Miss Rose coming back?"

"O! nonsense; what a guess!" said Adelaide. "No, stranger than that. My
brother Horace--your papa--has actually sailed for America, and is
coming directly home."

Elsie sprang up, her cheeks flushed, and her little heart beating
wildly.

"O Aunt Adelaide!" she cried, "is it really true? is he coming? and
will he be here soon?"

"He has really started at last; but how soon he will be here I don't
know," replied her aunt, turning to leave the room. "I have told you
all I know about it."

Elsie clasped her hands together, and sank down upon a sofa, Miss
Rose's letter, prized so highly a moment before, lying unheeded at her
feet; for her thoughts were far away, following that unknown parent as
he crossed the ocean; trying to imagine how he would look, how he would
speak, what would be his feelings toward her.

"Oh!" she asked, with a beating heart, "_will_ he _love_ me? My own
papa! will he let me love him? will he take me in his arms and call me
his own darling child?"

But who could answer the anxious inquiry? She must just wait until the
slow wheels of time should bring the much longed-for, yet sometimes
half-dreaded arrival.

Elsie's lessons were but indifferently recited that morning, and Miss
Day frowned, and said in a tone of severity that it did not agree with
her to receive letters; and that, unless she wished her papa to be much
displeased with her on his expected arrival, she must do a great deal
better than that.

She had touched the right chord then; for Elsie, intensely anxious to
please that unknown father, and, if possible, gain his approbation and
affection, gave her whole mind to her studies with such a determined
purpose that the governess could find no more cause for complaint.

But while the child is looking forward to the expected meeting with
such longing affection for him, how is it with the father?

Horace Dinsmore was, like his father, an upright, moral man, who paid
an outward respect to the forms of religion, but cared nothing for the
vital power of godliness; trusted entirely to his morality, and looked
upon Christians as hypocrites and deceivers. He had been told that his
little Elsie was one of these, and, though he would not have
acknowledged it even to himself, it had prejudiced him against her.
Then, too, in common with all the Dinsmores, he had a great deal of
family pride; and, though old Mr. Grayson had been a man of sterling
worth, intelligent, honest, and pious, and had died very wealthy, yet
because he was known to have begun life as a poor boy, the whole family
were accustomed to speak as though Horace had stooped very much in
marrying his heiress.

And Horace himself had come to look upon his early marriage as a piece
of boyish folly, of which he was rather ashamed; and so constantly had
Mr. Dinsmore spoken in his letters of Elsie as "old Grayson's
grandchild," that he had got into the habit of looking upon her as a
kind of disgrace to him; especially as she had always been described to
him as a disagreeable, troublesome child.

He had loved his wife with all the warmth of his passionate nature, and
had mourned bitterly over her untimely death; but years of study,
travel and worldly pleasures had almost banished her image from his
mind, and he seldom thought of her except in connection with the child
for whom he felt a secret dislike.

Scarcely anything but the expected arrival was now spoken or thought of
at Roselands, and Elsie was not the only one to whom old Time seemed to
move with an unusually laggard pace.

But at length a letter came telling them that they might look upon it
as being but one day in advance of its writer; and now all was bustle
and preparation.

"O mammy, mammy!" exclaimed Elsie, jumping up and down, and clapping
her hands for joy, as she came in from her afternoon ride, "just think!
papa, dear papa, will be here to-morrow morning."

She seemed wild with delight; but suddenly sobered down, and a look of
care stole over the little face, as the torturing question recurred to
her mind, "_Will he love me?_"

She stood quite still, with her eyes fixed thoughtfully, and almost
sadly, upon the floor, while Chloe took off her riding dress and cap
and smoothed her hair. As she finished arranging her dress she clasped
the little form in her arms, and pressed a fond kiss on the fair brow,
thinking to herself that was the sweetest and loveliest little face she
had ever looked upon.

Just at that moment an unusual bustle was heard in the house.

Elsie started, changed color, and stood listening with a throbbing
heart.

Presently little feet were heard running rapidly down the hall, and
Walter, throwing open the door, called out, "Elsie, he's come!" and
catching her hand, hurried her along to the parlor door.

"Stop, stop, Walter," she gasped as they reached it; and she leaned
against the wall, her heart throbbing so wildly she could scarcely
breathe.

"What is the matter?" said he, "are you ill? come along;" and pushing
the door open, he rushed in, dragging her after him.

So over-wrought were the child's feelings that she nearly fainted;
everything in the room seemed to be turning round, and for an instant
she scarcely knew where she was.

But a strange voice asked, "And who is this?" and looking up as her
grandfather pronounced her name, she saw a stranger standing before
her--very handsome, and very youthful-looking, in spite of a heavy dark
beard and mustache--who exclaimed hastily, "What! this great girl _my_
child? really it is enough to make a man feel old."

Then, taking her hand, he stooped and coldly kissed her lips.

She was trembling violently, and the very depth of her feelings kept
her silent and still; her hand lay still in his, cold and clammy.

He held it an instant, at the same time gazing searchingly into her
face; then dropped it, saying in a tone of displeasure, "I am not an
ogre, that you need be so afraid of me; but there, you may go; I will
not keep you in terror any longer."

She rushed away to her own room, and there, throwing herself upon the
bed, wept long and wildly. It was the disappointment of a lifelong
hope. Since her earliest recollection she had looked and longed for
this hour; and it seemed as though the little heart would break with
its weight of bitter anguish.

She was all alone, for Chloe had gone down to the kitchen to talk over
the arrival, not doubting that her darling was supremely happy in the
possession of her long looked-for parent.

And so the little girl lay there with her crushed and bleeding heart,
sobbing, mourning, weeping as though she would weep her very life away,
without an earthly friend to speak one word of comfort.

"O papa, papa!" she sobbed, "my own papa, you do not love me; me, your
own little girl. Oh! my heart will break. O mamma, mamma! if I could
only go to you; for there is no one here to love me, and I am so
lonely, oh! _so_ lonely and desolate."

And thus Chloe found her, when she came in an hour later, weeping and
sobbing out such broken exclamations of grief and anguish.

She was much surprised, but comprehending at once how her child was
suffering, she raised her up in her strong arms, and laying the little
head lovingly against her bosom, she smoothed the tangled hair, kissed
the tear-swollen eyes, and bathed the throbbing temples, saying, "My
precious pet, my darlin' chile, your ole mammy loves you better dan
life; an' did my darlin' forget de almighty Friend dat says, _I_ have
loved thee with an everlasting love,' an' 'I will never leave thee, nor
forsake thee'? He sticks closer dan a brudder, precious chile, and
says,'though a woman forget her sucking child, He will not forget _His_
chillen.' Mothers love dere chillens better dan fathers, darlin', and
so you see Jesus' love is better dan all other love; and I _knows_ you
hes got dat."

"O mammy! ask Him to take me to Himself, and to mamma--for oh! I am
very lonely, and I want to die!"

"Hush, hush, darlin'; old Chloe nebber could ask dat; dis ole heart
would break for sure. Yous all de world to your old mammy, darlin'; and
you know we must all wait de Lord's time."

"Then ask Him to help me to be patient," she said, in a weary tone.
"And O mammy!" she added, with a burst of bitter tears, "ask Him to
make my father love me."

"I will, darlin', I will," sobbed Chloe, pressing the little form
closer to her heart; "an' don't you go for to be discouraged right
away; for I'se sure Massa Horace must love you, fore long."

The tea-bell rang, and the family gathered about the table; but one
chair remained unoccupied.

"Where is Miss Elsie?" asked Adelaide of one of the servants.

"Dunno, missus," was the reply.

"Well, then, go and see," said Adelaide; "perhaps she did not hear the
bell."

The servant returned in a moment, saying that Miss Elsie had a bad
headache and did not want any supper. Mr. Horace Dinsmore paused in the
conversation he was carrying on with his father, to listen to the
servant's announcement. "I hope she is not a sickly child," said he,
addressing Adelaide; "is she subject to such attacks?"

"Not very," replied his sister dryly, for she had seen the meeting, and
felt really sorry for Elsie's evident disappointment; "I imagine crying
has brought this on."

He colored violently, and said in a tone of great displeasure, "Truly,
the return of a parent _is_ a cause for grief; yet I hardly expected my
presence to be quite so distressing to my only child. I had no idea
that she had already learned to dislike me so thoroughly."

"She doesn't," said Adelaide, "she has been looking and longing for
your return ever since I have known her."

"Then she has certainly been disappointed in me; her grief is not at
all complimentary, explain it as you will."

Adelaide made no reply, for she saw that he was determined to put an
unfavorable construction upon Elsie's conduct, and feared that any
defence she could offer would only increase his displeasure.

It was a weary, aching head the little girl laid upon her pillow that
night, and the little heart was sad and sore; yet she was not
altogether comfortless, for she had turned in her sorrow to Him who has
said, "Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them
not," and she had the sweet assurance of _His_ love and favor.

It was with a trembling heart, hoping yet fearing, longing and yet
dreading to see her father, that Elsie descended to the breakfast-room
the next morning. She glanced timidly around, but he was not there.

"Where is papa, Aunt Adelaide?" she asked.

"He is not coming down to breakfast, as he feels quite fatigued with
his journey," replied her aunt; "so you will not see him this morning,
and perhaps not at all to-day, for there will be a good deal of company
here this afternoon and evening."

Elsie sighed, and looked sadly disappointed. She found it very
difficult to attend to her lessons that morning, and every time the
door opened she started and looked up, half hoping it might be her papa.

But he did not come; and when the dinner hour arrived, the children
were told that they were to dine in the nursery, on account of the
large number of guests to be entertained in the dining-room. The
company remained until bedtime; she was not called down to the parlor;
and so saw nothing of her father that day.

But the next morning Chloe told her the children were to breakfast with
the family, as all the visitors had left excepting one or two
gentlemen. So Elsie went down to the breakfast-room, where, to her
surprise, she found her papa sitting alone, reading the morning paper.

He looked up as she entered.

"Good-morning, papa," she said, in half-trembling tones.

He started a little--for it was the first time he had ever been
addressed by that title, and it sounded strange to his ears--gave her a
glance of mingled curiosity and interest, half held out his hand, but
drawing it back again, simply said, "Good-morning, Elsie," and returned
to his paper.

Elsie stood irresolutely in the middle of the floor, wanting, yet not
daring to go to him.

But just at that instant the door opened, and Enna, looking rosy and
happy, came running in, and rushing up to her brother, climbed upon his
knee, and put her arms around his neck, saying, "Good-morning, brother
Horace. I want a kiss."

"You shall have it, little pet," said he, throwing down his paper.

Then, kissing her several times and hugging her in his arms, he said,
"_You_ are not afraid of me, are you? nor sorry that I have come home?"

"No, indeed," said Enna.

He glanced at Elsie as she stood looking at them, her large soft eyes
full of tears. She could not help feeling that Enna had her place, and
was receiving the caresses that should have been lavished upon herself.

"Jealous," thought her father; "I cannot bear jealous people;" and he
gave her a look of displeasure that cut her to the heart, and she
turned quickly away and left the room to hide the tears she could no
longer keep back.

"I am envious," she thought, "jealous of Enna. Oh! how wicked!" And she
prayed silently, "Dear Saviour, help me! take away these sinful
feelings."

Young as she was, she was learning to have some control over her
feelings, and in a few moments she had so far recovered her composure
as to be able to return to the breakfast-room and take her place at the
table, where the rest were already seated, her sweet little face sad
indeed and bearing the traces of tears, but quite calm and peaceful.

Her father took no further notice of her, and she did not dare trust
herself to look at him. The servants filled her plate, and she ate in
silence, feeling it a great relief that all were too busily engaged in
talking and eating to pay any attention to her. She scarcely raised her
eyes from her plate, and did not know how often a strange gentleman,
who sat nearly opposite, fixed his upon her.

As she left the room at the conclusion of the meal, he asked, while
following her with his eyes, "Is that one of your sisters, Dinsmore?"

"No," said he, coloring slightly; "she is my daughter."

"Ah, indeed!" said his friend. "I remember to have heard that you had a
child, but had forgotten it. Well, you have no reason to be ashamed of
her; she is lovely, perfectly lovely! has the sweetest little face I
ever saw."

"Will you ride, Travilla?" asked Mr. Dinsmore hastily, as though
anxious to change the subject.

"I don't care if I do," was the reply, and they went out together.

Some hours later in the day Elsie was at the piano in the music-room
practising, when a sudden feeling that some one was in the room caused
her to turn and look behind her.

Mr. Travilla was standing there.

"Excuse me," said he, bowing politely, "but I heard the sound of the
instrument, and, being very fond of music, I ventured to walk in."

Elsie was very modest, and rather timid, too, but also very polite; so
she said, "No excuse is necessary; but will you not take a seat, sir?
though I fear my music will not afford you any pleasure, for you know I
am only a little girl, and cannot play very well yet."

"Thank you," said he, taking a seat by her side. "And now will you do
me the favor to repeat the song I heard you singing a few moments
since?"

Elsie immediately complied, though her cheeks burned, and her voice
trembled at first from embarrassment; but it grew stronger as she
proceeded and in the last verse was quite steady and full. She had a
very fine voice for a child of her age; its sweetness was remarkable
both in singing and speaking; and she had also a good deal of musical
talent, which had been well cultivated, for she had had good teachers,
and had practised with great patience and perseverance. Her music was
simple, as suited her years, but her performance of it was very good
indeed.

Mr. Travilla thanked her very heartily, and complimented her singing;
then asked for another and another song, another and another piece,
chatting with her about each, until they grew quite familiar, and Elsie
lost all feeling of embarrassment.

"Elsie, I think, is your name, is it not?" he asked after a little.

"Yes, sir," said she, "Elsie Dinsmore."

"And you are the daughter of my friend, Mr. Horace Dinsmore?"

"Yes, sir."

"Your papa has been absent a long time, and I suppose you must have
quite forgotten him."

"No, sir, not _forgotten_, for I never had seen him."

"Indeed!" said he, in a tone of surprise; "then, since he is an entire
stranger to you, I suppose you cannot have much affection for him?"

Elsie raised her large, dark eyes to his face, with an expression of
astonishment. "Not love papa, my own dear papa, who has no child but
me? Oh! sir, how could you think that?"

"Ah! I see I was mistaken," said he, smiling; "I thought you could
hardly care for him at all; but do you think that he loves you?"

Elsie dropped her face into her hands, and burst into an agony of tears.

The young gentleman looked extremely vexed with himself.

"My poor little girl, my poor, dear little girl," he said, stroking her
hair, "forgive me. I am very, _very_ sorry for my thoughtless question.
Do be comforted, my poor child, for whether your papa loves you now or
not, I am quite sure he soon will."

Elsie now dried her tears, rose and closed the instrument. He assisted
her, and then asked if she would not take a little walk with him in the
garden. She complied, and, feeling really very sorry for the wound he
had so thoughtlessly inflicted, as well as interested in his little
companion, he exerted all his powers to entertain her--talked with her
about the plants and flowers, described those he had seen in foreign
lands, and related incidents of travel, usually choosing those in which
her father had borne a part, because he perceived that they were doubly
interesting to her.

Elsie, having been thrown very much upon her own resources for
amusement, and having a natural love for books, and constant access to
her grandfather's well-stocked library, had read many more, and with
much more thought, than most children of her age, so that Mr. Travilla
found her a not uninteresting companion, and was often surprised at the
intelligence shown by her questions and replies.

When the dinner-bell rang he led her in, and seated her by himself, and
never was any lady more carefully waited upon than little Elsie at this
meal. Two or three other gentlemen guests were present, giving their
attention to the older ladies of the company, and thus Mr. Travilla
seemed to feel quite at liberty to devote himself entirely to her,
attending to all her wants, talking with her, and making her talk.

Elsie now and then stole a glance at Mrs. Dinsmore, fearing her
displeasure; but to her great relief, the lady seemed too much occupied
to notice her. Once she looked timidly at her father, and her eyes met
his. He was looking at her with an expression half curious, half
amused. She was at a loss to understand the look, but, satisfied that
there was no displeasure in it, her heart grew light, and her cheeks
flushed with happiness.

"Really, Dinsmore," said Mr. Travilla, as they stood together near one
of the windows of the drawing-room soon after dinner, "your little girl
is remarkably intelligent, as well as remarkably pretty; and I have
discovered that she has quite a good deal of musical talent."

"Indeed! I think it is quite a pity that she does not belong to you,
Travilla, instead of me, since you seem to appreciate her so much more
highly," replied the father, laughing.

"I wish she did," said his friend. "But, seriously, Dinsmore, you ought
to love that child, for she certainly loves you devotedly."

He looked surprised. "How do you know?" he asked.

"It was evident enough from what I saw and heard this morning.
Dinsmore, she would value a caress from you more than the richest
jewel."

"Doubtful," replied Horace, hastily quitting the room, for Elsie had
come out on to the portico in her riding suit, and Jim, her usual
attendant, was bringing up her horse.

"Are you going to ride, Elsie?" asked her father, coming up to her.

"Yes, papa," she said, raising her eyes to his face.

He lifted her in his arms and placed her on the horse, saying to the
servant as he did so, "Now, Jim, you must take good care of my little
girl."

Tears of happiness rose in Elsie's eyes as she turned her horse's head
and rode down the avenue. "He called me _his_ little girl," she
murmured to herself, "and bade Jim take good care of me. Oh! he _will_
love me soon, as good, kind Mr. Travilla said he would."

Her father was still standing on the portico, looking after her.

"How well she sits her horse!" remarked Travilla, who had stepped out
and stood close by his side.

"Yes, I think she does," was the reply, in an absent tone. He was
thinking of a time, some eight or nine years before, when he had
assisted another Elsie to mount her horse, and had ridden for hours at
her side.

All the afternoon memories of the past came crowding thickly on his
mind, and an emotion of tenderness began to spring up in his heart
toward the child of her who had once been so dear to him; and as he saw
the little girl ride up to the house on her return, he again went out,
and lifting her from her horse, asked kindly, "Had you a pleasant ride,
my dear?"

"Oh! yes, papa, very pleasant," she said, looking up at him with a face
beaming with delight. He stooped and kissed her, saying, "I think I
shall ride with you one of these days; should you like it?"

"Oh! so very, _very_ much, papa," she answered, eagerly.

He smiled at her earnestness, and she hastened away to her room to
change her dress and tell Chloe of her happiness.

Alas! it was but a transient gleam of sunshine that darted across her
path, to be lost again almost instantly behind the gathering clouds.

More company came, so that the drawing-room was quite full in the
evening; and, though Elsie was there, her father seemed too much
occupied with the guests to give her even a glance. She sat alone and
unnoticed in a corner, her eyes following him wherever he moved, and
her ear strained to catch every tone of his voice; until Mr. Travilla,
disengaging himself from a group of ladies and gentlemen on the
opposite side of the room, came up to her, and taking her by the hand,
led her to a pleasant-looking elderly lady, who sat at a centre-table
examining some choice engravings which Mr. Dinsmore had brought with
him from Europe.

"Mother," said Mr. Travilla, "This is my little friend Elsie."

"Ah!" said she, giving the little girl a kiss, "I am glad to see you,
my dear."

Mr. Travilla set a chair for her close to his mother and then sat down
on her other side, and taking up the engravings one after another, he
explained them to her in a most entertaining manner, generally having
some anecdote to tell in connection with each.

Elsie was so much amused and delighted with what he was saying that she
at last quite forgot her father, and did not notice where he was.

Suddenly Mr. Travilla laid down the engraving he had in his hand,
saying: "Come, Miss Elsie, I want my mother to hear you play and sing;
will you not do me the favor to repeat that song I admired so much this
morning?"

"Oh! Mr. Travilla!" exclaimed the little girl, blushing and trembling,
"I could not play or sing before so many people. Please excuse me."

"Elsie," said her father's voice just at her side, "go _immediately,_
and do as the gentleman requests."

His tone was very stern, and as she lifted her eyes to his face, she
saw that his look was still more so; and tremblingly and tearfully she
rose to obey.

"Stay," said Mr. Travilla kindly, pitying her distress, "I withdraw my
request."

"But I do _not_ withdraw my command," said her father in the same stern
tone; "go at once, Elsie, and do as I bid you."

She obeyed instantly, struggling hard to overcome her emotion.

Mr. Travilla, scolding himself inwardly all the time for having brought
her into such trouble, selected her music, and placing it before her as
she took her seat at the instrument, whispered encouragingly, "Now,
Miss Elsie, only have confidence in yourself; that is all that is
necessary to your success."

But Elsie was not only embarrassed, but her heart was well-nigh broken
by her father's sternness, and the tears _would_ fill her eyes so that
she could see neither notes nor words. She attempted to play the
prelude, but blundered sadly, her embarrassment increasing every moment.

"Never mind," said Mr. Travilla, "never mind the prelude, but just
begin the song."

She made the attempt, but fairly broke down, and burst into tears
before she had got through the first verse. Her father had come up
behind her, and was standing there, looking much mortified.

"Elsie," he said, leaning down and speaking in a low, stern tone, close
to her ear, "I am ashamed of you; go to your room and to your bed
immediately."

With a heart almost bursting with grief and mortification she obeyed
him, and her pillow was wet with many bitter tears ere the weary eyes
closed in slumber.

When she came down the next morning she learned to her great grief that
Mr. Travilla and his mother had returned to their own home; she was
very sorry she had not been permitted to say good-bye to her friend,
and for several days she felt very sad and lonely, for all her father's
coldness of manner had returned, and he scarcely ever spoke to her;
while the younger members of the family ridiculed her for her failure
in attempting to play for company; and Miss Day, who seemed unusually
cross and exacting, often taunted her with it also.

These were sad, dark days for the little girl; she tried most earnestly
to attend to all her duties, but so depressed were her spirits, so
troubled was her mind, that she failed repeatedly in her lessons, and
so was in continual disgrace with Miss Day, who threatened more than
once to tell her papa.

It was a threat which Elsie dreaded extremely to have put in execution,
and Miss Day, seeing that it distressed her, used it the more
frequently, and thus kept the poor child in constant terror.

How to gain her father's love was the constant subject of her thoughts,
and she tried in many ways to win his affection. She always yielded a
ready and cheerful obedience to his commands, and strove to anticipate
and fulfil all his wishes. But he seldom noticed her, unless to give a
command or administer a rebuke, while he lavished many a caress upon
his little sister, Enna. Often Elsie would watch him fondling her,
until, unable any longer to control her feelings, she would rush away
to her own room to weep and mourn in secret, and pray that her father
might some day learn to love her. She never complained even to poor old
Aunt Chloe, but the anxious nurse watched all these things with the
jealous eye of affection; she saw that her child--as she delighted to
call her--was very unhappy, and was growing pale and melancholy; and
her heart ached for her, and many were the tears she shed in secret
over the sorrows of her nursling.

"Don't 'pear so sorrowful, darlin'," she sometimes said to her; "try to
be merry, like Miss Enna, and run and jump on Massa Horace's knee, and
den I tink he will like you better."

"O mammy! I _can't_," Elsie would say; "I don't dare to do it."

And Chloe would sigh and shake her head sorrowfully.




CHAPTER FOURTH


   "With more capacity for love than earth
    Bestows on most of mortal mould and birth."
                                 --BYRON.


                          "What are our hopes?
   Like garlands, on afflictions's forehead worn,
   Kissed in the morning, and at evening torn."
                   --DAVENPORT'S _King John and Matilda._


Such had been the state of affairs for about a week, when one morning
Elsie and her father met at the breakfast-room door.

"Good morning, papa," she said timidly.

"Good morning, Elsie," he replied in an unusually pleasant tone.

Then, taking her by the hand, he led her in and seated her beside
himself at the table.

Elsie's cheek glowed and her eyes sparkled with pleasure.

There were several guests present, and she waited patiently while they
and the older members of the family were being helped. At length it was
her turn.

"Elsie, will you have some meat?" asked her grandfather.

"No," said her father, answering for her; "once a day is as often as a
child of her age ought to eat meat; she may have it at dinner, but
never for breakfast or tea."

The elder Mr. Dinsmore laughed, saying, "Really, Horace, I had no idea
you were so notionate. I always allowed you to eat whatever you
pleased, and I never saw that it hurt you. But, of course, you must
manage your own child in your own way."

"If you please, papa, I had rather have some of those hot cakes," said
Elsie, timidly, as her father laid a slice of bread upon her plate.

"No," said he decidedly; "I don't approve of hot bread for children;
you must eat the cold." Then to a servant who was setting down a cup of
coffee beside the little girl's plate, "Take that away, Pomp, and bring
Miss Elsie a tumbler of milk. Or would you prefer water, Elsie?"

"Milk, if you please, papa," she replied with a little sigh; for she
was extremely fond of coffee, and it was something of a trial to give
it up.

Her father put a spoonful of stewed fruit upon her plate, and as Pompey
set down a tumbler of rich milk beside it, said, "Now you have your
breakfast before you, Elsie. Children in England are not allowed to eat
butter until they are ten or eleven years of age, and I think it an
excellent plan, to make them grow up rosy and healthy. I have neglected
my little girl too long, but I intend to begin to take good care of her
now," he added, with a smile, and laying his hand for an instant upon
her head.

The slight caress and the few kind words were quite enough to reconcile
Elsie to the rather meagre fare, and she ate it with a happy heart. But
the meagre fare became a constant thing, while the caresses and kind
words were not; and though she submitted without a murmur, she could
not help sometimes looking with longing eyes at the coffee and hot
buttered rolls, of which she was very fond. But she tried to be
contented, saying to herself, "Papa knows best, and I ought to be
satisfied with whatever he gives me."

"Isn't it delightful to have your papa at home, Elsie?" Mr. Dinsmore
one morning overheard Arthur saying to his little girl in a mocking
tone. "It's very pleasant to live on bread and water, isn't it, eh?"

"I _don't_ live on bread and water," Elsie replied, a little
indignantly. "Papa always allows me to have as much good, rich milk,
and cream, and fruit as I want, or I can have eggs, or cheese, or
honey, or anything else, except meat and hot cakes, and butter, and
coffee; and who wouldn't rather do without such things all their lives
than not have a papa to love them? And besides, you know, Arthur, that
I can have all the meat I want at dinner."

"Pooh! that's nothing; and _I_ wouldn't give much for all the love
_you_ get from him," said Arthur, scornfully.

There was something like a sob from Elsie; and as her father rose and
went to the window, he just caught a glimpse of her white dress
disappearing down the garden walk.

"What do you mean, sir, by teasing Elsie in that manner?" he exclaimed
angrily to Arthur, who still stood where the little girl had left him,
leaning against one of the pillars of the portico.

"I only wanted to have a little fun," returned the boy doggedly.

"Well, sir, I don't approve of such fun, and you will please to let the
child alone in future," replied his brother as he returned to his
newspaper again.

But somehow the paper had lost its interest. He seemed constantly to
hear that little sob, and to see a little face all wet with tears of
wounded feeling.

Just then the school-bell rang, and suddenly throwing down his paper,
he took a card from his pocket, wrote a few words upon it, and calling
a servant, said, "Take this to Miss Day."

Elsie was seated at her desk, beginning her morning's work, when the
servant entered and handed the card to the governess.

Miss Day glanced at it and said:

"Elsie, your father wants you. You may go."

Elsie rose in some trepidation and left the room, wondering what her
papa could want with her.

"Where is papa, Fanny?" she asked of the servant.

"In de drawin'-room, Miss Elsie," was the reply; and she hastened to
seek him there.

He held out his hand as she entered, saying with a smile, "Come here,
daughter."

It was the first time he had called her that, and it sent a thrill of
joy to her heart.

She sprang to his side, and, taking her hand in one of his, and laying
the other gently on her head, and bending it back a little, he looked
keenly into her face. It was bright enough now, yet the traces of tears
were very evident.

"You have been crying," he said, in a slightly reproving tone. "I am
afraid you do a great deal more of that than is good for you. It is a
very babyish habit, and you must try to break yourself of it."

The little face flushed painfully, and the eyes filled again.

"There," he said, stroking her hair, "don't begin it again. I am going
to drive over to Ion, where your friend Mr. Travilla lives, to spend
the day; would my little daughter like to go with me?"

"Oh! so _very_ much, papa!" she answered eagerly.

"There are no little folks there," he said smiling, "nobody to see but
Mr. Travilla and his mother. But I see you want to go; so run and ask
Aunt Chloe to get you ready. Tell her I want you nicely dressed, and
the carriage will be at the door in half an hour."

Elsie bounded away to do his bidding, her face radiant with happiness;
and at the specified time came down again, looking so very lovely that
her father gazed at her with proud delight, and could not refrain from
giving her a kiss as he lifted her up to place her in the carriage.

Then, seating himself beside her, he took her hand in his; and, closing
the door with the other, bade the coachman drive on.

"I suppose you have never been to Ion, Elsie?" he said, inquiringly.

"No, sir; but I have heard Aunt Adelaide say she thought it a very
pretty place," replied the little girl.

"So it is--almost as pretty as Roselands," said her father. "Travilla
and I have known each other from boyhood, and I spent many a happy day
at Ion, and we had many a boyish frolic together, before I ever thought
of you."

He smiled, and patted her cheek as he spoke.

Elsie's eyes sparkled. "O papa!" she said eagerly; "won't you tell me
about those times? It seems so strange that you were ever a little boy
and I was nowhere."

He laughed. Then said, musingly, "It seems but a very little while to
me, Elsie, since I was no older than you are now."

He heaved a sigh, and relapsed into silence.

Elsie wished very much that he would grant her request, but did not
dare to disturb him by speaking a word; and they rode on quietly for
some time, until a squirrel darting up a tree caught her eye, and she
uttered an exclamation. "O papa! did you see that squirrel? look at him
now, perched up on that branch. There, we have passed the tree, and now
he is out of sight."

This reminded Mr. Dinsmore of a day he had spent in those woods hunting
squirrels, when quite a boy, and he gave Elsie an animated account of
it. One of the incidents of the day had been the accidental discharge
of the fowling-piece of one of his young companions, close at Horace
Dinsmore's side, missing him by but a hair's breadth.

"I felt faint and sick when I knew how near I had been to death," he
said, as he finished his narrative.

Elsie had been listening with breathless interest.

"Dear papa," she murmured, laying her little cheek against his hand,
"how good God was to spare your life! If you had been killed I could
never have had you for my papa."

"Perhaps you might have had a much better one, Elsie," he said gravely.

"Oh! no, papa, I wouldn't want any other," she replied earnestly,
pressing his hand to her lips.

"Ah! here we are," exclaimed her father, as at that instant the
carriage turned into a broad avenue, up which they drove quite rapidly,
and the next moment they had stopped, the coachman had thrown open the
carriage door, and Mr. Dinsmore, springing out, lifted his little girl
in his arms and set her down on the steps of the veranda.

"Ah! Dinsmore, how do you do? Glad to see you, and my little friend
Elsie, too. Why this is really kind," cried Mr. Travilla, in his
cheerful, hearty way, as, hurrying out to welcome them, he shook Mr.
Dinsmore cordially by the hand, and kissed Elsie's cheek.

"Walk in, walk in," he continued, leading the way into the house, "my
mother will be delighted to see you both; Miss Elsie especially, for
she seems to have taken a very great fancy to her."

If Mrs. Travilla's greeting was less boisterous, it certainly was not
lacking in cordiality, and she made Elsie feel at home at once; taking
off her bonnet, smoothing her hair, and kissing her affectionately.

The gentlemen soon went out together, and Elsie spent the morning in
Mrs. Travilla's room, chatting with her and assisting her with some
coarse garments she was making for her servants.

Mrs. Travilla was an earnest Christian, and the lady and the little
girl were not long in discovering the tie which existed between them.

Mrs. Travilla, being also a woman of great discernment, and having
known Horace Dinsmore nearly all his life, had conceived a very correct
idea of the trials and difficulties of Elsie's situation, and without
alluding to them at all, gave her some most excellent advice, which the
little girl received very thankfully.

They were still chatting together when Mr. Travilla came in, saying,
"Come, Elsie, I want to take you out to see my garden, hot-house, etc.
We will just have time before dinner. Will you go along, mother?"

"No; I have some little matters to attend to before dinner, and will
leave you to do the honors," replied the lady; and taking the little
girl's hand he led her out.

"Where is papa?" asked Elsie.

"Oh! he's in the library, looking over some new books," replied Mr.
Travilla. "He always cared more for books than anything else. But what
do you think of my flowers?"

"Oh! they are lovely! What a variety you have! what a splendid
cape-jessamine that is, and there is a variety of cactus I never saw
before! Oh! you have a great many more, and handsomer, I think, than we
have at Roselands," exclaimed Elsie, as she passed admiringly from one
to another.

Mr. Travilla was much pleased with the admiration she expressed, for he
was very fond of his flowers, and took great pride in showing them.

But they were soon called in to dinner, where Elsie was seated by her
father.

"I hope this little girl has not given you any trouble, Mrs. Travilla,"
said he, looking gravely at her.

"Oh! no," the lady hastened to say, "I have enjoyed her company very
much indeed, and hope you will bring her to see me again very soon."

After dinner, as the day was very warm, they adjourned to the veranda,
which was the coolest place to be found; it being on the shady side of
the house, and also protected by thick trees, underneath which a
beautiful fountain was playing.

But the conversation was upon some subject which did not interest
Elsie, and she presently stole away to the library, and seating herself
in a corner of the sofa, was soon lost to everything around her in the
intense interest with which she was reading a book she had taken from
the table.

"Ah! that is what you are about, Miss Elsie! a bookworm, just like your
father, I see. I had been wondering what had become of you for the last
two hours," exclaimed Mr. Travilla's pleasant voice; and sitting down
beside her, he took the book from her hand, and putting it behind him,
said, "Put it away now; you will have time enough to finish it, and I
want you to talk to me."

"Oh! please let me have it," she pleaded. "I shall not have much time,
for papa will soon be calling me to go home."

"No, no, he is not to take you away; I have made a bargain with him to
let me keep you," said Mr. Travilla, very gravely. "We both think that
there are children enough at Roselands without you; and so your papa
has given you to me; and you are to be _my_ little girl, and call _me_
papa in future."

Elsie gazed earnestly in his face for an instant, saying in a
half-frightened tone, "You are only joking, Mr. Travilla."

"Not a bit of it," said he; "can't you see that I'm in earnest?"

His tone and look were both so serious that for an instant Elsie
believed he meant all that he was saying, and springing to her feet
with a little cry of alarm, she hastily withdrew her hand which he had
taken, and rushing out to the veranda, where her father still sat
conversing with Mrs. Travilla, she flung herself into his arms, and
clinging to him, hid her face on his breast, sobbing, "O papa, _dear_
papa! _don't_ give me away; please don't--I will be so good--I will do
everything you bid me--I--"

"Why, Elsie, what does all this mean!" exclaimed Mr. Dinsmore in great
surprise and perplexity; while Mr. Travilla stood in the doorway
looking half amused, half sorry for what he had done.

"O papa!" sobbed the little girl, still clinging to him as though
fearing she should be torn from his arms, "Mr. Travilla says you have
given me to him. O papa! _don't_ give me away."

"Pooh! nonsense, Elsie! I am ashamed of you! how can you be so very
silly as to believe for one moment anything so perfectly absurd as that
I should think of giving you away? Why, I would as soon think of
parting with my eyes."

Elsie raised her head and gazed searchingly into his face; then with a
deep-drawn sigh of relief, dropped it again, saying, "Oh! I am _so_
glad."

"Really, Miss Elsie," said Travilla, coming up and patting her on the
shoulder, "I can't say that I feel much complimented; and, indeed, I
don't see why you need have been so very much distressed at the
prospect before you; for I must say I have vanity enough to imagine
that I should make the better--or at least the more indulgent--father
of the two. Come, now, wouldn't you be willing to try me for a month,
if your papa will give consent?"

Elsie shook her head.

"I will let you have your own way in everything," urged Travilla,
coaxingly; "and I know that is more than he does."

"I don't want my own way, Mr. Travilla; I know it wouldn't always be a
good way," replied Elsie, decidedly.

Her father laughed and passed his hand caressingly over her curls.

"I thought you liked me, little Elsie," said Travilla, in a tone of
disappointment.

"So I do, Mr. Travilla; I like you very much," she replied.

"Well, don't you think I would make a good father?"

"I am sure you would be very kind, and that I should love you very
much; but not so much as I love my own papa; because, you know, you are
_not_ my papa, and never can be, even if he _should_ give me to you."

Mr. Dinsmore laughed heartily, saying, "I think you may as well give it
up, Travilla; it seems I'll have to keep her whether or no, for she
clings to me like a leech."

"Well, Elsie, you will at least come to the piano and play a little for
me, will you not?" asked Travilla, smiling.

But Elsie still clung to her father, seeming loath to leave him, until
he said, in his grave, decided way, "Go, Elsie; go at once, and do as
you are requested."

Then she rose instantly to obey.

Travilla looked somewhat vexed. "I wish," he afterward remarked to his
mother, "that Dinsmore was not quite so ready to second my requests
with his commands. I want Elsie's compliance to be voluntary; else I
think it worth very little."

Elsie played and sang until they were called to tea; after which she
sat quietly by her father's side, listening to the conversation of her
elders until the carriage was announced.

"Well, my daughter," said Mr. Dinsmore, when they were fairly upon
their way to Roselands, "have you had a pleasant day?"

"Oh! _very pleasant_, papa, excepting--" She paused, looking a little
embarrassed.

"Well, excepting what?" he asked, smiling down at her.

"Excepting when Mr. Travilla frightened me so, papa," she replied,
moving closer to his side, blushing and casting down her eyes.

"And you do love your own papa best, and don't want to exchange him for
another?" he said, inquiringly, as he passed his arm affectionately
around her waist.

"Oh! no, dear papa, not for anybody else in all the world," she said
earnestly.

He made no reply in words, but, looking highly gratified, bent down and
kissed her cheek.

He did not speak again during their ride, but when the carriage stopped
he lifted her out, and setting her gently down, bade her a kind
good-night, saying it was time for mammy to put her to bed.

She ran lightly up-stairs, and springing into her nurse's arms,
exclaimed, "O mammy, mammy! what a pleasant, _pleasant_ day I have had!
Papa has been so kind, and so were Mr. Travilla and his mother."

"I'se _berry_ glad, darlin', an' I hope you gwine hab many more such
days," replied Chloe, embracing her fondly and then proceeding to take
off her bonnet and prepare her for bed, while Elsie gave her a minute
account of all the occurrences of the day, not omitting the fright Mr.
Travilla had given her, and how happily her fears had been relieved.

"You look berry happy, my darlin' pet," said Chloe, clasping her
nursling again in her arms when her task was finished.

"Yes, mammy, I am happy, oh! _so_ happy, because I do believe that papa
is beginning to love me a little, and I hope that perhaps, after a
while, he will love me very much."

The tears gathered in her eyes as she spoke.

The next afternoon, as Elsie was returning from her walk, she met her
father.

"Elsie," said he, in a reproving tone, "I have forbidden you to walk
out alone; are you disobeying me?"

"No, papa," she replied meekly, raising her eyes to his face, "I was
not alone until about five minutes ago, when Aunt Adelaide and Louise
left me. They said it did not matter, as I was so near home; and they
were going to make a call, and did not want me along."

"Very well," he said, taking hold of her hand and making her walk by
his side. "How far have you been?"

"We went down the river bank to the big spring, papa. I believe it is a
little more than a mile that way; but when we came home, we made it
shorter by coming across some of the fields and through the meadow."

"Through the meadow?" said Mr. Dinsmore; "don't you go there again,
Elsie, unless I give you express permission."

"Why, papa?" she asked, looking up at him in some surprise.

"Because I forbid it," he replied sternly; "that is quite enough for
you to know; all you have to do is to obey, and you need never ask me
why, when I give you an order."

Elsie's eyes filled, and a big tear rolled quickly down her cheek.

"I did not mean to be naughty, papa," she said, struggling to keep down
a sob, "and I will try never to ask why again."

"There is another thing," said he. "You cry quite too easily; it is
entirely too babyish for a girl of your age; you must quit it."

"I will try, papa," said the little girl, wiping her eyes, and making a
great effort to control her feelings.

They had entered the avenue while this conversation was going on, and
were now drawing near the house; and just at this moment a little girl
about Elsie's age came running to meet them, exclaiming, "O Elsie! I'm
glad you've come at last. We've been here a whole hour--mamma, and
Herbert, and I--and I've been looking for you all this time."

"How do you do, Miss Lucy Carrington? I see you can talk as fast as
ever," said Mr. Dinsmore, laughing, and holding out his hand.

Lucy took it, saying with a little pout, "To be sure, Mr. Dinsmore, it
isn't more than two or three weeks since you were at our house, and I
wouldn't forget how to talk in that time." Then, looking at Elsie, she
went on, "We've come to stay a week; won't we have a fine time?" and,
catching her friend round the waist, she gave her a hearty squeeze.

"I hope so," said Elsie, returning the embrace. "I am glad you have
come."

"Is your papa here, Miss Lucy?" asked Mr. Dinsmore.

"Yes, sir; but he's going home again to-night, and then he'll come back
for us next week."

"I must go in and speak to him," said Mr. Dinsmore. "Elsie, do you
entertain Lucy."

"Yes, sir, I will," said Elsie. "Come with me to my room, won't you,
Lucy?"

"Yes; but won't you speak to mamma first? and Herbert, too; you are
such a favorite with both of them; and they still are in the
dressing-room, for mamma is not very well, and was quite fatigued with
her ride."

Lucy led the way to her mamma's room, as she spoke, Elsie following.

"Ah! Elsie dear, how do you do? I'm delighted to see you," said Mrs.
Carrington, rising from the sofa as they entered.

Then, drawing the little girl closer to her, she passed her arm
affectionately around her waist, and kissed her several times.

"I suppose you are very happy now that your papa has come home at
last?" she said, looking searchingly into Elsie's face. "I remember you
used to be looking forward so to his return; constantly talking of it
and longing for it."

Poor Elsie, conscious that her father's presence had not brought with
it the happiness she had anticipated, and yet unwilling either to
acknowledge that fact or tell an untruth, was at a loss what to say.

But she was relieved from the necessity of replying by Herbert, Lucy's
twin brother, a pale, sickly-looking boy, who had for several years
been a sufferer from hip complaint.

"O Elsie!" he exclaimed, catching hold of her hand and squeezing it
between both of his, "I'm ever so glad to see you again."

"Yes," said Mrs. Carrington, "Herbert always says nobody can tell him
such beautiful stories as Elsie; and nobody but his mother and his old
mammy was half so kind to run and wait on him when he was laid on his
back for so many weeks. He missed you very much when we went home, and
often wished he was at Roselands again."

"How is your hip now, Herbert?" asked Elsie, looking pityingly at the
boy's pale face.

"Oh! a great deal better, thank you. I can take quite long walks
sometimes now, though I still limp, and cannot run and leap like other
boys."

They chatted a few moments longer, and then Elsie went to her room to
have her hat taken off, and her hair made smooth before the tea-bell
should ring.

The two little girls were seated together at the table, Elsie's papa
being on her other side.

"How nice these muffins are! Don't you like them, Elsie?" asked Lucy,
as she helped herself to a third or fourth.

"Yes, very much," said Elsie, cheerfully.

"Then what are you eating that cold bread for? and you haven't got any
butter, either. Pompey, why don't hand Miss Elsie the butter?"

"No, Lucy, I mustn't have it. Papa does not allow me to eat hot cakes
or butter," said Elsie, in the same cheerful tone in which she had
spoken before.

Lucy opened her eyes very wide, and drew in her breath.

"Well," she exclaimed, "I guess if _my_ papa should try that on me, I'd
make such a fuss he'd _have_ to let me eat just whatever I wanted."

"Elsie knows better than to do that," said Mr. Dinsmore, who had
overheard the conversation; "she would only get sent away from the
table and punished for her naughtiness."

"I wouldn't do it anyhow, papa," said Elsie, raising her eyes
beseechingly to his face.

"No, daughter, I don't believe you would," he replied in an unusually
kind tone, and Elsie's face flushed with pleasure.

Several days passed away very pleasantly, Lucy sharing Elsie's studies
in the mornings, while Herbert remained with his mamma; and then in the
afternoon all walking or riding out together, unless the weather was
too warm, when they spent the afternoon playing in the veranda, on the
shady side of the house, and took their ride or walk after the sun was
down.

Arthur and Walter paid but little attention to Herbert, as his lameness
prevented him from sharing in the active sports which they preferred;
for they had never been taught to yield their wishes to others, and
were consequently extremely selfish and overbearing; but Elsie was very
kind, and did all in her power to interest and amuse him.

One afternoon they all walked out together, attended by Jim; but Arthur
and Walter, unwilling to accommodate their pace to Herbert's slow
movements, were soon far in advance, Jim following close at their heels.

"They're quite out of sight," said Herbert presently, "and I'm very
tired. Let's sit down on this bank, girls; I want to try my new bow,
and you may run and pick up my arrows for me."

"Thank you, sir," said Lucy, laughing; "Elsie may do it if she likes,
but as for me, _I_ mean to take a nap; this nice, soft grass will make
an elegant couch;" and throwing herself down, she soon was, or
pretended to be, in a sound slumber; while Herbert, seating himself
with his back against a tree, amused himself with shooting his arrows
here and there, Elsie running for them and bringing them to him, until
she was quite heated and out of breath.

"Now I must rest a little, Herbert," she said at length, sitting down
beside him. "Shall I tell you a story?"

"Oh! yes, do; I like your stories, and I don't mind leaving off
shooting till you're done," said he, laying down his bow.

Elsie's story lasted about ten minutes, and when she had finished,
Herbert took up his bow again, saying, "I guess you're rested now,
Elsie," and sent an arrow over into the meadow.

"There! just see how far I sent that! do run and bring it to me,
Elsie!" he cried, "and let me see if I can't hit that tree next time;
I've but just missed it."

"I'm tired, Herbert; but I'll run and bring it to you this once,"
replied Elsie, forgetting entirely her father's prohibition; "but then
you must try to wait until Jim comes back before you shoot any more."

So saying, she darted away, and came back in a moment with the arrow in
her hand. But a sudden recollection had come over her just as she left
the meadow, and throwing down the arrow at the boy's feet, she
exclaimed in an agitated tone, "O Herbert! I must go home just as
quickly as I can; I had forgotten--oh! how _could_ I forget! oh! what
will papa say!"

"Why, what's the matter?" asked Herbert in alarm.

"Never mind," said Elsie, sobbing. "There are the boys coming; they
will take care of you, and I must go home. Good-bye."

And she ran quickly up the road, Herbert following her retreating form
with wondering eyes.

Elsie sped onward, crying bitterly as she went.

"Where is papa!" she inquired of a servant whom she met in the avenue.

"Dunno, Miss Elsie, but I reckon Massa Horace am in de house, kase his
horse am in de stable."

Elsie hardly waited for the answer, but hurrying into the house, went
from room to room, looking and asking in vain for her father. He was
not in the drawing-room, or the library, or his own apartments. She had
just come out of this, and meeting a chamber-maid in the hall, she
exclaimed, "O Fanny! where _is_ papa? can't you tell me? for I must see
him."

"Here I am, Elsie; what do you want with me?" called out her father's
voice from the veranda, where she had neglected to look.

"What do you want?" he repeated, as his little girl appeared before him
with her flushed and tearful face. Elsie moved slowly toward him, with
a timid air and downcast eyes.

"I wanted to tell you something, papa," she said in a low, tremulous
tone.

"Well, I am listening," said he, taking hold of her hand and drawing
her to his side. "What is it? are you sick or hurt?"

"No, papa, not either; but--but, O papa! I have been a very naughty
girl," she exclaimed, bursting into tears, and sobbing violently. "I
disobeyed you, papa. I--I have been in the meadow."

"Is it possible! Would you _dare_ to do so when I so positively forbade
it only the other day?" he said in his sternest tone, while a dark
frown gathered on his brow. "Elsie, I shall have to punish you."

"I did not intend to disobey you, papa," she sobbed; "I quite forgot
that you had forbidden me to go there."

"That is no excuse, no excuse at all," said he severely; "You must
_remember_ my commands; and if your memory is so poor I shall find
means to strengthen it."

He paused a moment, still looking sternly at the little, trembling,
sobbing girl at his side; then asked, "What were you doing in the
meadow? tell me the whole story, that I may understand just how
severely I ought to punish you."

Elsie gave him all the particulars; and when, upon questioning her
closely, he perceived how entirely voluntary her confession had been,
his tone and manner became less stern, and he said quite mildly, "Well,
Elsie, I shall not be very severe with you this time, as you seem to be
very penitent, and have made so full and frank a confession; but beware
how you disobey me again, for you will not escape so easily another
time; and remember I will not take forgetfulness as any excuse. Go now
to Aunt Chloe, and tell her from me that she is to put you immediately
to bed."

"It is only the middle of the afternoon, papa," said Elsie,
deprecatingly.

"If it were much _earlier_, Elsie, it would make no difference; you
must go at once to your bed, and stay there until to-morrow morning."

"What will Lucy and Herbert think when they come in and can't find me,
papa?" she said, weeping afresh.

"You should have thought of that before you disobeyed me," he answered
very gravely. "If you are hungry," he added, "you may ask Chloe to get
you a slice of bread or a cracker for your supper, but you can have
nothing else."

Elsie lingered, looking timidly up into his face as though wanting to
say something, but afraid to venture.

"Speak, Elsie, if you have anything more to say," he said encouragingly.

"Dear papa, I am _so_ sorry I have been so naughty," she murmured,
leaning her head against the arm of his chair, while the tears rolled
fast down her cheeks; "won't you please forgive me, papa? it seems to
me I can't go to sleep to-night if you are angry with me."

He seemed quite touched by her penitence. "Yes, Elsie," he said, "I do
forgive you. I am not at all angry with you now, and you may go to
sleep in peace. Good night, my little daughter," and he bent down and
pressed his lips to her brow.

Elsie held up her face for another, and he kissed her lips.

"Good night, dear papa," she said, "I hope I shall never be such a
naughty girl again." And she went to her room, made almost happy by
that kiss of forgiveness.

Elsie was up quite early the next morning and had learned all her
lessons before breakfast. As she came down the stairs she saw, through
the open door, her papa standing with some of the men-servants,
apparently gazing at some object lying on the ground. She ran out and
stood on the steps of the portico, looking at them and wondering what
they were doing.

Presently her father turned round, and seeing her, held out his hand,
calling, "Come here, Elsie."

She sprang quickly down the steps, and running to him, put her hand in
his, saying, "Good morning, papa."

"Good morning, daughter," said he, "I have something to show you."

And leading her forward a few paces, he pointed to a large rattlesnake
lying there.

"O papa!" she cried, starting back and clinging to him.

"It will not hurt you _now_" he said; "it is dead; the men killed it
this morning _in the meadow_. Do you see _now_ why I forbade you to go
there?"

"O papa!" she murmured, in a low tone of deep feeling, laying her cheek
affectionately against his hand, "I might have lost my life by my
disobedience. How good God was to take care of me! Oh! I hope I shall
never be so naughty again."

"I hope not," said he gravely, but not unkindly; "and I hope that you
will always, after this, believe that your father has some good reason
for his commands, even although he may not choose to explain it to you."

"Yes, papa, I think I will," she answered, humbly.

The breakfast-bell had rung, and he now led her in and seated her at
the table.

Lucy Carrington looked curiously at her, and soon took an opportunity
to whisper, "Where were you last night, Elsie? I couldn't find you, and
your papa wouldn't say what had become of you, though I am quite sure
he knew."

"I'll tell you after breakfast," replied Elsie, blushing deeply.

Lucy waited rather impatiently until all had risen from the table, and
then, putting her arm round Elsie's waist, she drew her out on to the
veranda, saying, "now, Elsie, tell me; you know you promised."

"I was in bed," replied Elsie, dropping her eyes, while the color
mounted to her very hair.

"In bed! before five o'clock!" exclaimed Lucy in a tone of
astonishment. "Why, what was that for?"

"Papa sent me," replied Elsie, with an effort. "I had been naughty, and
disobeyed him."

"Why, how strange! Do tell me what you had done!" exclaimed Lucy, with
a face full of curiosity.

"Papa had forbidden me to go into the meadow, I forgot all about it,
and ran in there to get Herbert's arrow for him," replied Elsie,
looking very much ashamed.

"Was _that all?_ why _my_ papa wouldn't have punished me for that,"
said Lucy. "He might have scolded me a little if I had done it on
purpose, but if I had told him I had forgotten, he would only have
said, 'You must remember better next time.'"

"Papa says that forgetfulness is no excuse; that I am to remember his
commands, and if I forget, he will have to punish me, to make me
remember better next time," said Elsie.

"He must be very strict indeed; I'm glad he is not _my_ papa," replied
Lucy, in a tone of great satisfaction.

"Come, little girls, make haste and get ready; we are to start in half
an hour," said Adelaide Dinsmore, calling to them from the hall door.

The whole family, old and young, including visitors, were on that day
to go on a picnic up the river, taking their dinner along, and spending
the day in the woods. They had been planning this excursion for several
days, and the children especially had been looking forward to it with a
great deal of pleasure.

"Am I to go, Aunt Adelaide? did papa say so?" asked Elsie anxiously, as
she and Lucy hastened to obey the summons.

"I presume you are to go of course, Elsie; we have been discussing the
matter for the last three days, always taking it for granted that you
were to make one of the party, and he has never said you should not,"
replied Adelaide, good-naturedly; "so make haste, or you will be too
late. But here comes your papa now." she added, as the library door
opened, and Mr. Dinsmore stepped out into the hall where they were
standing.

"Horace, Elsie is to go of course?"

"I do not see the _of course_, Adelaide," said he dryly. "No; Elsie is
_not_ to go; she must stay at home and attend to her lessons as usual."

A look of keen disappointment came over Elsie's face, but she turned
away without a word and went upstairs; while Lucy, casting a look of
wrathful indignation at Mr. Dinsmore, ran after her, and following her
into her room, she put her arm round her neck, saying, "Never mind,
Elsie; it's too bad, and I wouldn't bear it. I'd go in spite of him."

"No, no, Lucy, I must obey my father; God says so; and besides, I
couldn't do that if I wanted to, for papa is stronger than I am, and
would punish me severely if I were to attempt such a thing," replied
Elsie hastily, brushing away a tear that _would_ come into her eye.

"Then I'd coax him," said Lucy. "Come, I'll go with you, and we will
both try."

"No," replied Elsie, with a hopeless shake of the head, "I have found
out already that my papa never breaks his word; and nothing could
induce him to let me go, now that he has once said I should not. But
you will have to leave me, Lucy, or you will be too late."

"Good-bye, then," said Lucy, turning to go; "but I think it is a great
shame, and I shan't half enjoy myself without you."

"Well now, Horace, I think you might let the child go," was Adelaide's
somewhat indignant rejoinder to her brother, as the two little girls
disappeared; "I can't conceive what reason you can have for keeping her
at home, and she looks so terribly disappointed. Indeed, Horace, I am
sometimes half inclined to think you take pleasure in thwarting that
child."

"You had better call me a tyrant at once, Adelaide," said he angrily,
and turning very red; "but I must beg to be permitted to manage my own
child in my own way; and I cannot see that I am under any obligation to
give my reasons either to you or to any one else."

"Well, if you did not intend to let her go, I think you might have said
so at first, and not left the poor child to build her hopes upon it,
only to be disappointed. I must say I think it was cruel."

"Until this morning, Adelaide," he replied, "I did intend to let her
go, for I expected to go myself; but I find I shall not be able to do
so, as I must meet a gentleman on business; and as I know that
accidents frequently occur to such pleasure parties, I don't feel
willing to let Elsie go, unless I could be there myself to take care of
her. Whether you believe it or not, it is really regard for my child's
safety, and _not_ cruelty, that leads me to refuse her this
gratification."

"You are full of notions about that child, Horace," said Adelaide, a
little impatiently. "I'm sure some of the rest of us could take care of
her."

"No; in case of accident you would all have enough to do to take care
of yourselves, and I shall not think of trusting Elsie in the company,
since I cannot be there myself," he answered decidedly; and Adelaide,
seeing he was not to be moved from his determination, gave up the
attempt, and left the room to prepare for her ride.

It was a great disappointment to Elsie, and for a few moments her heart
rose up in rebellion against her father. She tried to put away the
feeling, but it would come back; for she could not imagine any reason
for his refusal to let her go, excepting the disobedience of the day
before, and it seemed hard and unjust to punish her twice for the same
fault, especially as he would have known nothing about it but for her
own frank and voluntary confession. It was a great pity she had not
heard the reasons he gave her Aunt Adelaide, for then she would have
been quite submissive and content. It is indeed true that she ought to
have been as it was; but our little Elsie, though sincerely desirous to
do right, was not yet perfect, and had already strangely forgotten the
lesson of the morning.

She watched from the veranda the departure of the pleasure-seekers, all
apparently in the gayest spirits. She was surprised to see that her
father was not with them, and it half reconciled her to staying at
home, although she hardly expected to see much of him; but there was
something pleasant in the thought that he wanted her at home because he
was to be there himself; it looked as though he really had some
affection for her, and even a selfish love was better than none. I do
not mean that these were Elsie's thoughts; no, she never would have
dreamed of calling her father selfish; but the undefined feeling was
there, as she watched him hand the ladies into the carriage, and then
turn and reenter the house as they drove off.

But Miss Day's bell rang, and Elsie gathered up her books and hastened
to the school-room. Her patience and endurance were sorely tried that
morning, for Miss Day was in an exceedingly bad humor, being greatly
mortified and also highly indignant that she had not been invited to
make one of the picnic party; and Elsie had never found her more
unreasonable and difficult to please; and her incessant fault-finding
and scolding were almost more than the little girl could bear in
addition to her own sad disappointment. But at last the morning, which
had seldom seemed so long, was over, and Elsie dismissed from the
school-room for the day.

At dinner, instead of the usual large party, there were only her father
and the gentleman with whom he was transacting business, Miss Day, and
herself.

The gentleman was not one of those who care to notice children, but
continued to discuss business and politics with Mr. Dinsmore, without
seeming to be in the least aware of the presence of the little girl,
who sat in perfect silence, eating whatever her father saw fit to put
upon her plate; and Elsie was very glad indeed when at length Miss Day
rose to leave the table, and her papa told her she might go too.

He called her back though, before she had gone across the room, to say
that he had intended to ride with her that afternoon, but found he
should not be able to do so, and she must take Jim for a protector, as
he did not wish her either to miss her ride or to go entirely alone.

He spoke very kindly; Elsie thought with remorse of the rebellious
feelings of the morning, and, had she been alone with her father, would
certainly have confessed them, expressing her sorrow and asking
forgiveness; but she could not do so before a third person, more
especially a stranger; and merely saying, "Yes, papa, I will," she
turned away and left the room. Jim was bringing up her horse as she
passed the open door; and she hastened up-stairs to prepare for her
ride.

"O mammy!" she suddenly exclaimed, as Chloe was trying on her hat, "is
Pomp going to the city to-day?"

"Yes, darlin', he gwine start directly," said Chloe, arranging her
nursling's curls to better advantage, and finishing her work with a
fond caress.

"Oh! then, mammy, take some money out of my purse, and tell him to buy
me a pound of the very nicest candy he can find," said the little girl,
eagerly. "I haven't had any for a long time, and I feel hungry for it
to-day. What they had bought for the picnic looked so good, but you
know I didn't get any of it."

The picnic party returned just before tea-time, and Lucy Carrington
rushed into Elsie's room eager to tell her what a delightful day they
had had. She gave a very glowing account of their sports and
entertainment, interrupting herself every now and then to lament over
Elsie's absence, assuring her again and again that it had been the only
drawback upon her own pleasure, and that she thought that Elsie's papa
was very unkind indeed to refuse her permission to go. As Elsie
listened the morning's feelings of vexation and disappointment returned
in full force; and though she said nothing, she allowed her friend to
accuse her father of cruelty and injustice without offering any
remonstrance.

In the midst of their talk the tea-bell rang, and they hurried down to
take their places at the table, where Lucy went on with her narrative,
though in a rather subdued tone, Elsie now and then asking a question,
until Mr. Dinsmore turned to his daughter, saying, in his stern way,
"Be quiet, Elsie; you are talking entirely too much for a child of your
age; don't let me hear you speak again until you have left the table."

Elsie's face flushed, and her eyes fell, under the rebuke; and during
the rest of the meal not a sound escaped her lips.

"Come, Elsie, let us go into the garden and finish our talk," said
Lucy, putting her arm affectionately around her friend's waist as they
left the table; "your papa can't hear us there, and we'll have a good
time."

"Papa only stopped us because we were talking too much at the table,"
said Elsie, apologetically; "I'm sure he is willing you should tell me
all about what a nice time you all had. But, Lucy," she added, lowering
her voice, "please don't say again that you think papa was unkind to
keep me at home to-day. I'm sure he knows best, and I ought not to have
listened to a word of that kind about him."

"O! well, never mind, I won't talk so any more," said Lucy,
good-naturedly, as they skipped down the walk together; "but I do think
he's cross, and I wish you were my sister, that you might have my kind,
good papa for yours too," she added, drawing her arm more closely about
her friend's waist.

"Thank you, Lucy," said Elsie, with a little sigh, "I would like to be
your sister, but indeed I would not like to give up my own dear papa,
for I love him, oh! _so_ much."

"Why, how funny, when he's so cross to you!" exclaimed Lucy, laughing.

Elsie put her hand over her friend's mouth, and Lucy pushed it away,
saying, "Excuse me; I forgot; but I'll try not to say it again."

While the little girls were enjoying their talk in the garden, a
servant with a small bundle in her hand came out on the veranda, where
Mr. Horace Dinsmore was sitting smoking a cigar, and, casting an
inquiring glance around, asked if he knew where Miss Elsie was?

"What do you want with her?" he asked.

"Only to give her dis bundle, massa, dat Pomp jus brought from de city."

"Give it to me," he said, extending his hand to receive it.

A few moments afterward Elsie and her friend returned to the house, and
meeting Pomp, she asked him if he had brought her candy.

He replied that he had got some that was very nice indeed, and he
thought that Fanny had carried it to her; and seeing Fanny near, he
called to her to know what she had done with it.

"Why, Pomp, Massa Horace he told me to give it to him," said the girl.

Elsie turned away with a very disappointed look.

"You'll go and ask him for it, won't you?" asked Lucy, who was anxious
to enjoy a share of the candy as well as to see Elsie gratified.

"No," said Elsie, sighing, "I had rather do without it."

Lucy coaxed for a little while, but finding it impossible to persuade
Elsie to approach her father on the subject, finally volunteered to do
the errand herself.

Elsie readily consented, and Lucy, trembling a little in spite of her
boast that she was not afraid of him, walked out on to the veranda
where Mr. Dinsmore was still sitting, and putting on an air of great
confidence, said:

"Mr. Dinsmore, will you please to give me Elsie's candy? she wants it."

"Did Elsie send you?" he asked in a cold, grave tone.

"Yes, sir," replied Lucy, somewhat frightened.

"Then, if you please, Miss Lucy, you may tell Elsie to come directly to
me."

Lucy ran back to her friend, and Elsie received the message in some
trepidation, but as no choice was now left her, she went immediately to
her father.

"Did you want me, papa?" she asked timidly.

"Yes, Elsie; I wish to know why you send another person to me for what
you want, instead of coming yourself. It displeases me very much, and
you may rest assured that you will never get anything that you ask for
in that way."

Elsie hung her head in silence.

"Are you going to answer me?" he asked, in his severe tone. "Why did
you send Lucy instead of coming yourself?"

"I was afraid, papa," she whispered, almost under her breath.

"Afraid! afraid of what?" he asked, with increasing displeasure.

"Of you, papa," she replied, in a tone so low that he could scarcely
catch the words, although he bent down his ear to receive her reply.

"If I were a drunken brute, in the habit of knocking you about, beating
and abusing you, there might be some reason for your fear, Elsie," he
said, coloring with anger; "but, as it is, I see no excuse for it at
all and I am both hurt and displeased by it."

"I am very sorry, papa; I won't do so again," she said, tremblingly.

There was a moment's pause, and then she asked in a timid hesitating
way, "Papa, may I have my candy, if you please?"

"No, you may not," he said decidedly; "and understand and remember that
I positively forbid you either to buy or eat anything of the kind again
without my express permission."

Elsie's eyes filled, and she had a hard struggle to keep down a rising
sob as she turned away and went slowly back to the place where she had
left her friend.

"Have you got it?" asked Lucy, eagerly.

Elsie shook her head.

"What a shame!" exclaimed Lucy, indignantly. "He's just as cross as he
can be. He's a tyrant, so he is! just a hateful old tyrant, and I
wouldn't care a cent for him, if I were you, Elsie. I'm glad he is not
my father, so I am."

"I'm afraid he doesn't love me much," sighed Elsie in low, tearful
tones, "for he hardly ever lets me have anything, or go anywhere that I
want to."

"Well, never mind, _I'll_ send and buy a good lot tomorrow, and we'll
have a regular feast," said Lucy, soothingly, as she passed her arm
around her friend's waist and drew her down to a seat on the portico
step.

"Thank you, Lucy; you can buy for yourself if you like, but not for me,
for papa has forbidden me to eat anything of the sort."

"Oh! of course we'll not let him know anything about it," said Lucy.

But Elsie shook her head sadly, saying with a little sigh, "No, Lucy,
you are very kind, but I cannot disobey papa, even if he should never
know it, because that would be disobeying God, and He would know it."

"Dear me, how particular you are!" exclaimed Lucy a little pettishly.

"Elsie," said Mr. Dinsmore, speaking from the door, "what are you doing
there? Did I not forbid you to be out in the evening air?"

"I did not know you meant the doorstep, papa. I thought I was only not
to go down into the garden," replied the little girl, rising to go in.

"I see you intend to make as near an approach to disobedience as you
dare," said her father. "Go immediately to your room, and tell mammy to
put you to bed."

Elsie silently obeyed, and Lucy, casting an indignant glance at Mr.
Dinsmore, was about to follow her, when he said, "I wish her to go
alone, if you please, Miss Lucy;" and with a frown and a pout the
little girl walked into the drawing-room and seated herself on the sofa
beside her mamma.

Mr. Dinsmore walked out on to the portico, and stood there watching the
moon which was just rising over the treetops.

"Horace," said Arthur, emerging from the shadow of a tree near by and
approaching his brother, "Elsie thinks you're a tyrant. She says you
never let her have anything, or go anywhere, and you're always
punishing her. She and Lucy have had a fine time out here talking over
your bad treatment of her, and planning to have some candy in spite of
you."

"Arthur, I do not believe that Elsie would deliberately plan to disobey
me; and whatever faults she may have, I am very sure she is above the
meanness of telling tales," replied Mr. Dinsmore, in a tone of
severity, as he turned and went into the house, while Arthur, looking
sadly crestfallen, crept away out of sight.

When Elsie reached her room, she found that Chloe was not there; for,
not expecting that her services would be required at so early an hour,
she had gone down to the kitchen to have a little chat with her
fellow-servants. Elsie rang for her, and then walking to the window,
stood looking down into the garden in an attitude of thoughtfulness and
dejection. She was mentally taking a review of the manner in which she
had spent the day, as was her custom before retiring. The retrospect
had seldom been so painful to the little girl. She had a very tender
conscience, and it told her now that she had more than once during the
day indulged in wrong feelings toward her father; that she had also
allowed another to speak disrespectfully of him, giving by her silence
a tacit approval of the sentiments uttered, and, more than that, had
spoken complainingly of him herself.

"Oh!" she murmured half aloud as she covered her face with her hands,
and the tears trickled through her fingers, "how soon I have forgotten
the lesson papa taught me this morning, and my promise to trust him
without knowing his reasons. I don't deserve that he should love me or
be kind and indulgent, when I am so rebellious."

"What's de matter, darlin'?" asked Chloe's voice in pitiful tones, as
she took her nursling in her arms and laid her little head against her
bosom, passing her hand caressingly over the soft bright curls; "your
ole mammy can't bear to see her pet cryin' like dat."

"O mammy, mammy! I've been such a wicked girl to-day! Oh! I'm afraid I
shall never be good, never be like Jesus. I'm afraid He is angry with
me, for I have disobeyed Him to-day," sobbed the child.

"Darlin'," said Chloe, earnestly, "didn't you read to your ole mammy
dis very morning dese bressed words: 'If any man sin, we have an
advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous,' an' de other:
'If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our
sins.' Go to de dear, bressed Lord Jesus, darlin', an' ax Him to
forgive you, an' I _knows_ He will."

"Yes, He will," replied the little girl, raising her head and dashing
away her tears, "He will forgive my sins, and take away my wicked
heart, and give me right thoughts and feelings. How glad I am you
remembered those sweet texts, you dear old mammy," she added, twining
her arms lovingly around her nurse's neck. And then she delivered her
papa's message, and Chloe began at once to prepare her for bed.

Elsie's tears had ceased to flow, but they were still trembling in her
eyes, and the little face wore a very sad and troubled expression as
she stood patiently passive in her nurse's hands. Chloe had soon
finished her labors, and then the little girl opened her Bible, and, as
usual, read a few verses aloud, though her voice trembled, and once or
twice a tear fell on the page; then closing the book she stole away to
the side of the bed and knelt down.

She was a good while on her knees, and several times, as the sound of a
low sob fell upon Chloe's ear, she sighed and murmured to herself:
"Poor, darlin'! dear, bressed lamb, your ole mammy don't like to hear
dat."

Then as the child rose from her kneeling posture she went to her, and
taking her in her arms, folded her in a fond embrace, calling her by
the most tender and endearing epithets, and telling her that her old
mammy loved her better than life--better than anything in the wide
world.

Elsie flung her arms around her nurse's neck, and laid her head upon
her bosom, saying, "Yes, my dear old mammy, I know you love me, and I
love you, too. But put me in bed now, or papa will be displeased."

"What makes you so onrestless, darlin'?" asked Chloe, half an hour
afterward; "can't you go to sleep no how?"

"O mammy! if I could only see papa just for one moment to tell him
something. Do you think he would come to me?" sighed the little girl.
"Please, mammy, go down and see if he is busy. Don't say a word if he
is; but if not, ask him to come to me for just one minute."

Chloe left the room immediately, but returned the next moment, saying,
"I jes looked into de parlor, darlin', an' Mass Horace he mighty busy
playin' chess wid Miss Lucy's mamma, an' I didn't say nuffin' to him.
Jes you go sleep, my pet, an' tell Mass Horace all 'bout it in de
mornin'."

Elsie sighed deeply, and turning over on her pillow, cried herself to
sleep.

Chloe was just putting the finishing touches to the little girl's dress
the next morning, when Lucy Carrington rapped at the door.

"Good morning, Elsie," she said; "I was in a hurry to come to you,
because it is my last day, you know. Wasn't it too bad of your father
to send you off to bed so early last night?"

"No, Lucy, papa has a right to send me to bed whenever he pleases; and
besides, I was naughty and deserved to be punished; and it was not much
more than half an hour earlier than my usual bedtime."

"You naughty!" exclaimed Lucy, opening her eyes very wide. "Mamma often
says she wishes I was half as good."

Elsie sighed, but made no answer. Her thoughts seemed far away. She was
thinking of what she had been so anxious, the night before, to say to
her father, and trying to gain courage to do it this morning. "If I
could only get close to him when nobody was by, and he would look and
speak kindly to me, I could do it then," she murmured to herself.

"Come, Aunt Chloe, aren't you done? I want to have a run in the garden
before breakfast," said Lucy, somewhat impatiently, as Chloe tied and
untied Elsie's sash several times.

"Well, Miss Lucy, I'se done now," she answered, passing her hand once
more over her nursling's curls: "but Mass Horace he mighty pertickler
'bout Miss Elsie."

"Yes," said Elsie, "papa wants me always to look very nice and neat;
and when I go down in the morning he just gives me one glance from head
to foot, and if anything is wrong he is sure to see it and send me back
immediately to have it made right. Now, mammy, please give me my hat
and let us go."

"You's got plenty ob time, chillens; de bell won't go for to ring dis
hour," remarked the old nurse, tying on Elsie's hat.

"My chile looks sweet an' fresh as a moss rosebud dis mornin'," she
added, talking to herself, as she watched the two little girls tripping
down-stairs hand in hand.

They skipped up and down the avenue several times, and ran all round
the garden before it was time to go in. Then Elsie went up to Chloe to
have her hair made smooth again. She was just descending for the second
time to the hall, where she had left Lucy, when they saw a carriage
drive up to the front door.

"There's papa!" cried Lucy, joyfully, as it stopped and a gentleman
sprang out and came up the steps into the portico; and in an instant
she was in his arms, receiving such kisses and caresses as Elsie had
vainly longed for all her life.

Lucy had several brothers, but was an only daughter, and a very great
pet, especially with her father.

Elsie watched them with a wistful look and a strange aching at her
heart.

But presently Mr. Carrington set Lucy down and turning to her, gave her
a shake of the hand, and then a kiss, saying, "How do you do this
morning, my dear? I'm afraid you are hardly glad to see me, as I come
to take Lucy away, for I suppose you have been having fine times
together."

"Yes, sir, indeed we have; and I hope you will let her come again."

"Oh! yes, certainly; but the visits must not be all on one side. I
shall talk to your papa about it, and perhaps persuade him to let us
take you along this afternoon to spend a week at Ashlands."

"Oh! how delightful!" cried Lucy, clapping her hands. "Elsie, do you
think he will let you go?"

"I don't know, I'm afraid not," replied the little girl doubtfully.

"You must coax him, as I do my papa," said Lucy.

But at this Elsie only shook her head, and just then the breakfast-bell
rang.

Mr. Dinsmore was already in the breakfast-room, and Elsie, going up to
him, said, "Good morning, papa."

"Good morning, Elsie," he replied, but his tone was so cold that even
if no one else had been by, she could not have said another word.

He had not intended to be influenced by the information Arthur had so
maliciously given him the night before; yet unconsciously he was, and
his manner to his little daughter was many degrees colder than it had
been for some time.

After breakfast Lucy reminded Elsie of a promise she had made to show
her some beautiful shells which her father had collected in his
travels, and Elsie led the way to the cabinet, a small room opening
into the library, and filled with curiosities.

They had gone in alone, but were soon followed by Arthur, Walter and
Enna.

Almost everything in the room belonged to Mr. Horace Dinsmore; and
Elsie, knowing that many of the articles were rare and costly, and that
he was very careful of them, begged Enna and the boys to go out, lest
they should accidentally do some mischief.

"I won't," replied Arthur. "I've just as good a right to be here as
you."

As he spoke he gave her a push, which almost knocked her over, and in
catching at a table to save herself from falling, she threw down a
beautiful vase of rare old china, which Mr. Dinsmore prized very
highly. It fell with a loud crash, and lay scattered in fragments at
their feet.

"There, see what you've done!" exclaimed Arthur, as the little group
stood aghast at the mischief.

It happened that Mr. Dinsmore was just then in the library, and the
noise soon brought him upon the scene of action.

"Who did this?" he asked, in a wrathful tone, looking from one to the
other.

"Elsie," said Arthur; "she threw it down and broke it."

"Troublesome, careless child! I would not have taken a hundred dollars
for that vase," he exclaimed. "Go to your room! go this instant, and
stay there until I send for you; and remember, if you ever come in here
again without permission I shall punish you."

He opened the door as he spoke, and Elsie flew across the hall, up the
stairs, and into her own room, without once pausing or looking back.

"Now go out, every one of you, and don't come in here again; this is no
place for children," said Mr. Dinsmore, turning the others into the
hall, and shutting and locking the door upon them.

"You ought to be ashamed, Arthur Dinsmore," exclaimed Lucy indignantly;
"it was all your own fault, and Elsie was not to blame at all, and you
know it."

"I didn't touch the old vase, and I'm not going to take the blame of
it, either, I can tell you, miss," replied Arthur, moving off, followed
by Walter and Enna, while Lucy walked to the other end of the hall, and
stood looking out of the window, debating in her own mind whether she
had sufficient courage to face Mr. Dinsmore, and make him understand
where the blame of the accident ought to lie.

At length she seemed to have solved the question; for turning about and
moving noiselessly down the passage to the library door, she gave a
timid little rap, which was immediately answered by Mr. Dinsmore's
voice saying, "Come in."

Lucy opened the door and walked in, closing it after her.

Mr. Dinsmore sat at a table writing, and he looked up with an
expression of mingled surprise and impatience.

"What do you want, Miss Lucy?" he said, "speak quickly, for I am very
busy."

"I just wanted to tell you, sir," replied Lucy, speaking up quite
boldly, "that Elsie was not at all to blame about the vase; for it was
Arthur who pushed her and made her fall against the table, and that was
the way the vase came to fall and break."

"What made him push her?" he asked.

"Just because Elsie asked him, and Walter, and Enna to go out, for fear
they might do some mischief."

Mr. Dinsmore's pen was suspended over the paper for a moment, while he
sat thinking with a somewhat clouded brow; but presently turning to the
little girl, he said quite pleasantly, "Very well, Miss Lucy, I am much
obliged to you for your information, for I should be very sorry to
punish Elsie unjustly. And now will you do me the favor to go to her
and tell her that her papa says she need not stay in her room any
longer?"

"Yes, sir, I will," replied Lucy, her face sparkling with delight as
she hurried off with great alacrity to do his bidding.

She found Elsie in her room crying violently, and throwing her arms
around her neck she delivered Mr. Dinsmore's message, concluding with,
"So now, Elsie, you see you needn't cry, nor feel sorry any more; but
just dry your eyes and let us go down into the garden and have a good
time."

Elsie was very thankful to Lucy, and very glad that her papa now knew
that she was not to blame; but she was still sorry for his loss, and
his words had wounded her too deeply to be immediately forgotten;
indeed it was some time before the sore spot they had made in her heart
was entirely healed. But she tried to forget it all and enter heartily
into the sports proposed by Lucy.

The Carringtons were not to leave until the afternoon, and the little
girls spent nearly the whole morning in the garden, coming into the
drawing-room a few moments before the dinner-bell rang.

Mrs. Carrington sat on a sofa engaged with some fancy work, while
Herbert, who had not felt well enough to join the other children, had
stretched himself out beside her, putting his head in her lap.

Mr. Carrington and Mr. Horace Dinsmore were conversing near by.

Lucy ran up to her papa and seated herself upon his knee with her arm
around his neck; while Elsie stopped a moment to speak to Herbert, and
then timidly approaching her father, with her eyes upon the floor, said
in a low, half-frightened tone, that reached no ear but his, "I am very
sorry about the vase, papa."

He took her hand, and drawing her close to him, pushed back the hair
from her forehead with his other hand, and bending down to her, said
almost in a whisper, "Never mind, daughter, we will forget all about
it. I am sorry I spoke so harshly to you, since Lucy tells me you were
not so much to blame."

Elsie's face flushed with pleasure, and she looked up gratefully; but
before she had time to reply, Mrs. Carrington said, "Elsie, we want to
take you home with us to spend a week; will you go?"

"I should like to, very much, indeed, ma'am, if papa will let me,"
replied the little girl, looking wistfully up into his face.

"Well, Mr. Dinsmore, what do you say? I hope you can have no
objection," said Mrs. Carrington, looking inquiringly at him; while her
husband added, "Oh! yes, Dinsmore, you must let her go by all means;
you can certainly spare her for a week, and it need be no interruption
to her lessons, as she can share with Lucy in the instructions of our
governess, who is really a superior teacher."

Mr. Dinsmore was looking very grave, and Elsie knew from the expression
of his countenance what his answer would be, before he spoke. He had
noticed the indignant glance Lucy had once or twice bestowed upon him,
and remembering Arthur's report of the conversation between the two
little girls the night before, had decided in his own mind that the
less Elsie saw of Lucy the better.

"I thank you both for your kind attention to my little girl," he
replied courteously, "but while fully appreciating your kindness in
extending the invitation, I must beg leave to decline it, as I am
satisfied that home is the best place for her at present."

"Ah! no, I suppose we ought hardly to have expected you to spare her so
soon after your return," said Mrs. Carrington; "but, really, I am very
sorry to be refused, for Elsie is such a good child that I am always
delighted to have Lucy and Herbert with her."

"Perhaps you think better of her than she deserves, Mrs. Carrington. I
find that Elsie is sometimes naughty and in need of correction, as well
as other children, and therefore, I think it best to keep her as much
as possible under my own eye," replied Mr. Dinsmore, looking very
gravely at his little daughter as he spoke.

Elsie's face flushed painfully, and she had hard work to keep from
bursting into tears. It was a great relief to her that just at that
moment the dinner-bell rang, and there was a general movement in the
direction of the dining-room. Her look was touchingly humble as her
father led her in and seated her at the table.

She was thinking, "Papa says I am naughty sometimes, but oh! how _very_
naughty he would think me if he knew all the wicked feelings I had
yesterday."

As soon as they had risen from the table, Mrs. Carrington bade Lucy go
up to her maid to have her bonnet put on, as the carriage was already
at the door.

Elsie would have gone with her, but her father had taken her hand
again, and he held it fast.

She looked up inquiringly into his face.

"Stay here," he said. "Lucy will be down again in a moment."

And Elsie stood quietly at his side until Lucy returned.

But even then her father did not relinquish his hold of her hand, and
all the talking the little girls could do must be done close at his
side.

Yet, as he was engaged in earnest conversation with Mr. Carrington, and
did not seem to be listening to them, Lucy ventured to whisper to
Elsie, "I think it's real mean of him; he might let you go."

"No," replied Elsie, in the same low tone, "I'm sure papa knows best;
and besides, I _have_ been naughty, and don't deserve to go, though I
should like to, dearly."

"Well, good-bye," said Lucy, giving her a kiss.

It was not until Mr. Carrington's carriage was fairly on its way down
the avenue, that Mr. Dinsmore dropped his little girl's hand; and then
he said, "I want you in the library, Elsie; come to me in half an hour."

"Yes, papa, I will," she replied, looking a little frightened.

"You need not be afraid," he said, in a tone of displeasure; "I am not
going to hurt you."

Elsie blushed and hung her head, but made no reply, and he turned away
and left her. She could not help wondering what he wanted with her, and
though she tried not to feel afraid, it was impossible to keep from
trembling a little as she knocked at the library door.

Her father's voice said, "Come in," and entering, she found him alone,
seated at a table covered with papers and writing materials, while
beside the account book in which he was writing lay a pile of money, in
bank notes, and gold and silver.

"Here, Elsie," he said, laying down his pen, "I want to give you your
month's allowance. Your grandfather has paid it to you heretofore, but
of course, now that I am at home, I attend to everything that concerns
you. You have been receiving eight dollars--I shall give you ten," and
he counted out the money and laid it before her as he spoke; "but I
shall require a strict account of all that you spend. I want you to
learn to keep accounts, for if you live, you will some day have a great
deal of money to take care of; and here is a blank book that I have
prepared, so that you can do so very easily. Every time that you lay
out or give away any money, you must set it down here as soon as you
come home; be particular about that, lest you should forget something,
because you must bring your book to me at the end of every month, and
let me see how much you have spent, and what is the balance in hand;
and if you are not able to make it come out square, and tell me what
you have done with every penny, you will lose either the whole or a
part of your allowance for the next month, according to the extent of
your delinquency. Do you understand?"

"Yes, sir."

"Very well. Let me see now how much you can remember of your last
month's expenditures. Take the book and set down everything you can
think of."

Elsie had a good memory, and was able to remember how she had spent
almost every cent during the time specified; and she set down one item
after another, and then added up the column without any mistake.

"That was very well done," said her father approvingly. And then
running over the items half aloud, "Candy, half a dollar; remember,
Elsie, there is to be no more money disposed of in that way; not as a
matter of economy, by any means, but because I consider is very
injurious. I am very anxious that you should grow up strong and
healthy. I would not for anything have you a miserable dyspeptic."

Then suddenly closing the book and handing it to her, he said,
inquiringly, "You were very anxious to go to Ashlands?"

"I would have liked to go, papa, if you had been willing," she replied
meekly.

"I am afraid Lucy is not a suitable companion for you, Elsie. I think
she puts bad notions into your head," he said very gravely.

Elsie flushed and trembled, and was just opening her lips to make her
confession, when the door opened and her grandfather entered. She could
not speak before him, and so remained silent.

"Does she not sometimes say naughty things to you?" asked her father,
speaking so low that her grandfather could not have heard.

"Yes, sir," replied the little girl, almost under her breath.

"I thought so," said he, "and therefore I shall keep you apart as
entirely as possible; and I hope there will be no murmuring on your
part."

"No, papa, you know best," she answered, very humbly.

Then, putting the money into her hands, he dismissed her. When she had
gone out he sat for a moment in deep thought. Elsie's list of articles
bought with her last month's allowance consisted almost entirely of
gifts for others, generally the servants. There were some beads and
sewing-silk for making a purse, and a few drawing materials; but with
the exception of the candy, she had bought nothing else for herself.
This was what her father was thinking of.

"She is a dear, unselfish, generous little thing," he said to himself.
"However, I may be mistaken; I must not allow myself to judge from only
one month. She seems submissive, too,"--he had overheard what passed
between her and Lucy at parting--"but perhaps that was for effect; she
probably suspected I could hear her--and she thinks me a tyrant, and
obeys from fear, not love."

This thought drove away all the tender feeling that had been creeping
into his heart; and when he next met his little daughter, his manner
was as cold and distant as ever, and Elsie found it impossible to
approach him with sufficient freedom to tell him what was in her heart.




CHAPTER FIFTH


   "Man is unjust, but God is just; and finally justice
    Triumphs."
                                 --LONGFELLOW'S _Evangeline_.

                      "How disappointment tracks
    The steps of hope!"
                                 --MISS LANDON.


One afternoon, the next week after the Carringtons had left, the
younger members of the family, Arthur, Elsie, Walter and Enna, were
setting out to take a walk, when Elsie, seeing a gold chain depending
from the pocket of Arthur's jacket, exclaimed:

"O Arthur! how _could_ you take grandpa's watch? _Do_ put it away, for
you will be almost sure to injure it."

"Hold your tongue, Elsie; I'll do as I please," was the polite
rejoinder.

"But, Arthur, you _know_ that grandpa would never let you take it. I
have often heard him say that it was very valuable, for it was seldom
that so good a one could be had at any price; and I know that he paid a
great deal for it."

"Well, if he prizes it so, he needn't have left it lying on his table,
and so I'll just teach him a lesson; it's about time he learnt to be
careful."

"O Arthur! do put it away," pleaded Elsie, "if anything should happen
to it, what will grandpa say? I know he will be very angry, and ask us
all who did it; and you know I cannot tell a lie, and if he asks me if
it was you, I cannot say no."

"Yes, I'll trust you for telling tales," replied Arthur, sneeringly;
"but if you do, I'll pay you for it."

He ran down the avenue as he spoke, Walter and Enna following, and
Elsie slowly bringing up the rear, looking the picture of distress, for
she knew not what to do, seeing that Arthur would not listen to her
remonstrances, and, as often happened, all the older members of the
family were out, and thus there was no authority that could be appealed
to in time to prevent the mischief which she had every reason to fear
would be done. Once she thought of turning back, that she might escape
the necessity of being a witness in the case; but, remembering that her
father told her she must walk with the others that afternoon, and also
that, as she had already seen the watch in Arthur's possession, her
testimony would be sufficient to convict him even if she saw no more,
she gave up the idea, and hurried on, with the faint hope that she
might be able to induce Arthur to refrain from indulging in such sports
as would be likely to endanger the watch; or else to give it into her
charge. At any other time she would have trembled at the thought of
touching it; but now she felt so sure it would be safer with her than
with him, that she would gladly have taken the responsibility.

The walk was far from being a pleasure that afternoon; the boys ran so
fast that it quite put her out of breath to keep up with them; and then
every little while Arthur would cut some caper that made her tremble
for the watch; answering her entreaties that he would either give it
into her care or walk along quietly, with sneers and taunts, and
declarations of his determination to do just exactly as he pleased, and
not be ruled by her.

But at length, while he was in the act of climbing a tree, the watch
dropped from his pocket and fell to the ground, striking with
considerable force.

Elsie uttered a scream, and Arthur, now thoroughly frightened himself,
jumped down and picked it up.

The crystal was broken, the back dented, and how much the works were
injured they could not tell; but it had ceased to run.

"O Arthur! see what you've done!" exclaimed Walter.

"What will papa say?" said Enna; while Elsie stood pale and trembling,
not speaking a word.

"You hush!" exclaimed Arthur fiercely. "I'll tell you what, if any of
you dare to tell of me, I'll make you sorry for it to the last day of
your life. Do you hear?"

The question was addressed to Elsie in a tone of defiance.

"Arthur," said she, "grandpa will know that _somebody_ did it, and
surely you would not wish an innocent person to be punished for _your_
fault."

"I don't care _who_ gets punished, so that papa does not find out that
I did it," said he furiously; "and if you dare to tell of me, I'll pay
you for it."

"I shall say nothing, unless it becomes necessary to save the innocent,
or I am forced to speak; but in that case I shall tell the truth,"
replied Elsie, firmly.

Arthur doubled up his fist, and made a plunge at her as if he meant to
knock her down; but Elsie sprang behind the tree, and then ran so
fleetly toward the house that he was not able to overtake her until his
passion had had time to cool.

When they reached the house, Arthur replaced the watch on his father's
table, whence he had taken it, and then they all awaited his return
with what courage they might.

"I say, Wally," said Arthur, drawing his little brother aside and
speaking in a low tone, having first sent a cautious glance around to
assure himself that no one else was within hearing; "I say, what would
you give me for that new riding whip of mine?"

"O Arthur! anything I've got," exclaimed the little boy eagerly. "But
you wouldn't give it up, I know, and you're only trying to tease me."

"No, indeed, Wal; I mean to _give_ it to you if you'll only be a good
fellow and do as I tell you."

"What?" he asked, with intense interest.

"Tell papa that Jim broke the watch."

"But he _didn't_" replied the child, opening his eyes wide with
astonishment.

"Well, what of that, you little goose?" exclaimed Arthur impatiently;
"papa doesn't know that."

"But Jim will get punished," said Walter, "and I don't want to tell
such a big story either."

"Very well, sir, then you'll not get the whip; and, besides, if you
don't do as I wish, I'm certain you'll see a ghost one of these nights;
for there's one comes to see me sometimes, and I'll send him right off
to you."

"Oh! _don't_, Arthur, don't; I'd die of fright," cried the little boy,
who was very timid, glancing nervously around, as if he expected the
ghost to appear immediately.

"I tell you I will, though, if you don't do as I say; he'll come this
very night and carry you off, and never bring you back."

"O Arthur! don't let him come, and I'll say anything you want me to,"
cried the little fellow in great terror.

"That's a good boy; I knew you would," said Arthur, smiling
triumphantly. And turning away from Walter, he next sought out Enna,
and tried his threats and persuasions upon her with even better success.

Elsie had gone directly to her own room, where she sat trembling every
time a footstep approached her door, lest it should be a messenger from
her grandfather. No one came, however, and at last the tea-bell rang,
and on going down she found to her relief that her grandfather and his
wife had not yet returned.

"You look pale, Elsie," said her father, giving her a scrutinizing
glance as she took her seat by his side. "Are you well?"

"Yes, papa, quite well," she replied.

He looked at her again a little anxiously, but said no more; and as
soon as the meal was concluded, Elsie hastened away to her own room
again.

It was still early in the evening when Mr. and Mrs. Dinsmore
returned--for once, bringing no company with them; and he had not been
many minutes in the house ere he took up his watch, and of course
instantly discovered the injury it had sustained.

His suspicions at once fell upon Arthur, whose character for mischief
was well established; and burning with rage, watch in hand, he repaired
to the drawing-room, which he entered, asking, in tones tremulous with
passion, "Where is Arthur! Young rascal! this is some of _his_ work,"
he added, holding up the injured article.

"My dear, how can you say so? have you any proof?" asked his wife,
deprecatingly adding in her softest tones, "my poor boy seems to get
the blame of everything that goes wrong."

"He gets no more than he deserves," replied her husband angrily.
"Arthur! Arthur, I say, where are you?"

"He is in the garden, sir, I think. I saw him walking in the shrubbery
a moment since," said Mr. Horace Dinsmore.

The father instantly despatched a servant to bring him in; sending a
second in search of the overseer; while a third was ordered to assemble
all the house-servants. "I will sift this matter to the bottom, and
child or servant, the guilty one shall suffer for it," exclaimed the
old gentleman, pacing angrily up and down the room. "Arthur," said he
sternly, as the boy made his appearance, looking somewhat pale and
alarmed, "how dared you meddle with my watch?"

"I didn't, sir; I never touched it," he replied boldly, yet avoiding
his father's eye as he uttered the deliberate falsehood.

"There, my dear, I told you so," exclaimed his mother, triumphantly.

"I don't believe you," said his father; "and if you are guilty, as I
strongly suspect, you had better confess it at once, before I find it
out in some other way."

"I didn't do it, sir. It was Jim, and I can prove it by Walter and
Enna; we all saw it fall from his pocket when he was up in a tree; and
he cried like anything when he found it was broken, and said he didn't
mean to do it any harm; he was only going to wear it a little while,
and then put it back all safe; but now master would be dreadfully
angry, and have him flogged."

"That I will, if it is true," exclaimed the old gentleman,
passionately; "he shall be well whipped and sent out to work on the
plantation. I'll keep no such meddlers about my house."

He looked at Enna. "What do you know of this?" he asked.

"It is true, papa, I saw him do it," she replied, with a slight blush,
and sending an uneasy glance around the room.

"Did you see it, too, Walter?" asked his father.

"Yes, sir," replied the little fellow, in a low, reluctant tone; "but
please, papa, don't punish him. I'm sure he didn't mean to break it."

"Hold your tongue! he _shall_ be punished as he deserves," cried the
old gentleman, furiously. "Here, sir," turning to the overseer, and
pointing to Jim, "take the fellow out, and give him such a flogging as
he will remember."

Elsie was sitting in her own room, trying to learn a lesson for the
next day, but finding great difficulty in fixing her thoughts upon it,
when she was startled by the sudden entrance of Aunt Chloe, who, with
her apron to her eyes, was sobbing violently.

"O mammy, mammy! what's the matter? has anything happened to you?"
inquired the little girl, in a tone of great alarm, starting to her
feet, and dropping her book in her haste and fright.

"Why," sobbed Chloe, "Jim, he's been an' gone an' broke ole master's
watch, an' he's gwine be whipped, an' old Aunt Phoebe she's cryin' fit
to break her ole heart 'bout her boy, kase--"

Elsie waited to hear no more, but darting out into the hall, and
encountering her father on his way to his room, she rushed up to him,
pale and agitated, and seizing his hand, looked up eagerly into his
face, exclaiming with a burst of tears and sobs, "O papa, papa! don't,
oh! _don't_ let them whip poor Jim."

Mr. Dinsmore's countenance was very grave, almost distressed.

"I am sorry it is necessary, daughter," he said, "but Jim has done very
wrong, and deserves his punishment, and I cannot interfere."

"Oh! no, papa, he did not, _indeed_ he did not break the watch. I
_know_ he didn't, for I was by and saw it all."

"Is it _possible?_" said he, in a tone of surprise; "then tell me who
did do it. It could not have been you, Elsie?" and he looked
searchingly into her face.

"Oh! no, papa, I would never have dared to touch it. But please don't
make me tell tales; but I know it wasn't Jim. Oh! _do_ stop them
quickly, before they begin to whip him."

"Aunt Chloe," said Mr. Dinsmore, "go down to my father, and tell him it
is my request that the punishment should be delayed a few moments until
I come down."

Then taking Elsie's hand, he led her into her room again, and seating
himself, drew her to his side, saying, with grave decision, "Now, my
daughter, if you want to save Jim, it will be necessary for you to tell
_all_ you know about this affair."

"I don't like to tell tales, papa," pleaded the little girl; "I think
it so very mean. Is it not enough for me to tell that I know Jim didn't
do it?"

"No, Elsie; I have already said that it is _quite necessary_ for you to
tell _all you know_."

"O papa! don't make me; I don't like to do it," she urged, with tears
in her eyes.

"I should be very much ashamed of you, and quite unwilling to own you
as my child, if under any other circumstances you were willing to tell
tales," he replied, in a tone of kindness that quite surprised Elsie,
who always trembled at the very thought of opposing the slightest
resistance to his will; "but," he added, firmly, "it is the only way to
save Jim; if you do not now make a full disclosure of all you know, he
will be severely whipped and sent away to work on the plantation, which
will distress his poor old mother exceedingly. Elsie, I think you would
be doing very wickedly to allow an innocent person to suffer when you
can prevent it; and besides, I will add the weight of my authority, and
say you _must do it at once_; and you well know, my daughter, that
there can be no question as to the duty of obedience to your father."

He paused, gazing earnestly down into the little tearful, downcast,
blushing face at his side.

"Have I not said enough to convince you of your duty?" he asked.

"Yes, papa; I will tell you all about it," she answered in a tremulous
tone.

Her story was told with evident reluctance, but in a simple,
straightforward manner, that attested its truthfulness.

Mr. Dinsmore listened in silence, but with an expression of indignation
on his handsome features; and the moment she had finished he rose, and
again taking her hand, led her from the room, saying, as he did so:

"You must repeat this story to your grandfather."

"O papa! must I? Won't you tell him? please don't make me do it," she
pleaded tremblingly, and hanging back.

"My daughter, you _must_," he replied, so sternly that she dared not
make any further resistance, but quietly submitted to be led into her
grandfather's presence.

He was still in the drawing-room, walking about in a disturbed and
angry manner, and now and then casting a suspicious glance upon Arthur,
who sat pale and trembling in a corner, looking the picture of guilt
and misery; for he had heard Chloe deliver his brother's message, and
feared that exposure awaited him.

Walter had stolen away to cry over Jim's punishment, and wish that he
had had the courage to tell the truth at first; but saying to himself
that it was too late now, his father wouldn't believe him, and he would
make it up to Jim somehow, even if it took all his pocket-money for a
month.

None of the other members of the family had left the room, and all wore
an anxious, expectant look, as Mr. Dinsmore entered, leading Elsie by
the hand.

"I have brought you another witness, sir," he said, "for it seems Elsie
was present when the mischief was done."

"Ah!" exclaimed the old gentlemen; "then I may hope to get at the
truth. Elsie, who broke my watch?"

"It was not Jim, grandpa, indeed, _indeed_, it was not; but oh!
_please_ don't make me say who it was," replied the little girl,
beseechingly.

"Elsie!" exclaimed her father, in a tone of stern reproof.

"O papa! how can I?" she sobbed, trembling and clinging to his hand as
she caught a threatening look from Arthur.

"Come, come, child, you must tell us all you know about it," said her
grandfather, "or else I can't let Jim off."

Mr. Dinsmore was looking down at his little girl, and, following the
direction of her glance, perceived the cause of her terror. "Don't be
afraid to speak out and tell all you know, daughter, for I will protect
you," he said, pressing the little trembling hand in his, and at the
same time giving Arthur a meaning look.

"Yes, yes, speak out, child; speak out at once; no one shall hurt you
for telling the truth," exclaimed her grandfather, impatiently.

"I will, grandpa," she said, trembling and weeping; "but please don't
be very angry with Arthur; if you will forgive him this time, I think
he will never meddle any more; and I am quite sure he did not mean to
break it."

"So it _was you_, after all, you young rascal! I knew it from the
first!" cried the old gentleman, striding across the room, seizing the
boy by the shoulder and shaking him roughly.

"But go on, Elsie, let us have the whole story," he added, turning to
her again, but still keeping his hold upon Arthur. "You young dog!" he
added, when she had finished. "Yes, I'll forgive you when you've had a
good, sound flogging, and a week's solitary confinement on bread and
water, but not before."

So saying, he was about to lead him from the room, when Elsie suddenly
sprang forward, and with clasped hands, and flushed, eager face, she
pleaded earnestly, beseechingly, "O grandpa! don't whip him, don't
punish him! He will never be so naughty again. Will you, Arthur? Let
_me pay_ for the watch, grandpa, and don't punish him. I would so like
to do it."

"It isn't the moneyed value of the watch I care for, child," replied
the old gentleman, contemptuously; "and besides, where would you get so
much money?"

"I am rich, grandpa, am I not? Didn't my mamma leave me a great deal of
money?" asked the little girl, casting down her eyes and blushing
painfully.

"No, Elsie," said her father, very gently, as he took her hand and led
her back to the side of his chair again, "you have nothing but what I
choose to give you, until you come of age, which will not be for a
great many years yet."

"But you _will_ give me the money to pay for the watch papa, _won't_
you?" she asked, pleadingly.

"No, I certainly shall not, for I think Arthur should be left to suffer
the penalty of his own misdeeds," he replied in a very decided tone;
"and, besides," he added, "your grandfather has already told you that
it is not the pecuniary loss he cares for."

"No; but I will teach this young rascal to let my property alone," said
the elder gentleman with almost fierce determination, as he tightened
his grasp upon the boy's arm and dragged him from the room.

Arthur cast a look of hatred and defiance at Elsie as he went out, that
made her grow pale with fear and tremble so that she could scarcely
stand.

Her father saw both the look and its effect, and drawing the little
trembler closer to him, he put his arm around her, and stroking her
hair, said in a low, soothing tone: "Don't be frightened, daughter; I
will protect you."

She answered him with a grateful look and a long sigh of relief, and he
was just about to take her on his knee when visitors were announced,
and, changing his mind, he dismissed her to her room, and she saw no
more of him that evening.

"Oh! if they only _hadn't_ come just now," thought the sorely
disappointed child, as she went out with slow, reluctant steps. "I'm
sure they wouldn't, if they had only known. I'm sure, quite sure papa
was going to take me on his knee, and they prevented him. Oh! will be
ever think of doing it again! Dear, dear papa, if you could only know
how I long to sit there!" But Mrs. Dinsmore, who had hastily retired on
the exit of Arthur and his father from the drawing-room, was now
sailing majestically down the hall, on her return thither; and Elsie,
catching sight of her, and being naturally anxious to avoid a meeting
just then, at once quickened her pace very considerably, almost running
up the stairs to her own room, where she found old Aunt Phoebe, Jim's
mother, waiting to speak with her.

The poor old creature was overflowing with gratitude, and her fervent
outpouring of thanks and blessings almost made Elsie forget her
disappointment for the time.

Then Jim came to the door, asking to see Miss Elsie, and poured out his
thanks amid many sobs and tears; for the poor fellow had been terribly
frightened--indeed, so astounded by the unexpected charge, that he had
not had a word to say in his own defence, beyond an earnest and
reiterated assertion of his entire innocence; to which, however, his
angry master had paid no attention.

But at length Phoebe remembered that she had some baking to do, and
calling on Jim to come right along and split up some dry wood to heat
her oven, she went down to the kitchen followed by her son, and Elsie
was left alone with her nurse.

Chloe sat silently knitting, and the little girl, with her head leaning
upon her hand and her eyes fixed thoughtfully upon the floor, was
rehearsing again and again in her own mind all that had just passed
between her papa and herself; dwelling with lingering delight upon
everything approaching to a caress, every kind word, every soothing
tone of his voice; and then picturing to herself all that he might have
done and said if those unwelcome visitors had not come in and put an
end to the interview; and half hoping that he would send for her when
they had gone, she watched the clock and listened intently for every
sound.

But her bedtime came and she dared not stay up any longer; for his
orders had been peremptory that she should always retire precisely at
that hour, unless she had his express permission to remain up longer.

She lay awake for some time, thinking of his unwonted kindness, and
indulging fond hopes for the future, then fell asleep to dream that she
was on her father's knee, and felt his arms folded lovingly about her,
and his kisses warm upon her cheek.

Her heart beat quickly as she entered the breakfast-room the next
morning.

The family were just taking their places at the table, and her
half-eager, half-timid "Good morning, papa," was answered by a grave,
absent "Good morning, Elsie," and turning to his father and entering
into a conversation with him on some business matter, he took no
further notice of his little daughter, excepting to see that her plate
was well supplied with such articles of food as he allowed her to eat.

Elsie was sadly disappointed, and lingered about the room in the vain
hope of obtaining a smile or caress; but presently her father went out,
saying to the elder Mr. Dinsmore that he was going to ride over to Ion,
and would probably not return before night; then, with a sigh, the
little girl went back to her own room to prepare her morning lessons.

Elsie was now happily free from Arthur's persecutions for a time; for
even after his release, he was too much afraid of his brother openly to
offer her any very serious annoyance, though he plotted revenge in
secret; yet the little girl's situation was far from comfortable, and
her patience often severely tried, for Mrs. Dinsmore was excessively
angry with her on Arthur's account, and whenever her father was not
present, treated her in the most unkind manner; and from the same cause
the rest of the family, with the exception of her grandpa and Aunt
Adelaide, were unusually cold and distant; while her father, although
careful to see that all her wants were attended to, seldom took any
further notice of her; unless to reprove her for some childish fault
which, however trifling, never escaped his eye.

"You seem," said Adelaide to him one day, as he sent Elsie from the
room for some very slight fault, "to expect that child to be a great
deal more perfect than any grown person I ever saw, and to understand
all about the rules of etiquette."

"If you please, Adelaide," said he haughtily, "I should like to be
allowed to manage my own child as I see proper, without any
interference from others."

"Excuse me," replied his sister; "I had no intention of interfering;
but really, Horace, I do think you have no idea how eagle-eyed you are
for faults in her, nor how _very_ stern is the tone in which you always
reprove her. I have known Elsie a great deal longer than you have, and
I feel very certain that a gentle reproof would do her quite as much
good, and not wound her half so much."

"Enough, Adelaide!" exclaimed her brother, impatiently. "If I were ten
years _younger_ than yourself, instead of that much older, there might
be some propriety in your advising and directing me thus; as it is, I
must say I consider it simply impertinent." And he left the room with
an angry stride, while Adelaide looked after him with the thought, "I
am glad you have no authority over me."

All that Adelaide had said was true; yet Elsie never complained, never
blamed her father, even in her heart; but, in her deep humility,
thought it was all because she was "so very naughty or careless;" and
she was continually making resolutions to be "oh! _so_ careful always
to do just right, and please dear papa, so that some day he might learn
to love her."

But, alas! that hope was daily growing fainter and fainter; his cold
and distant manner to her and his often repeated reproofs had so
increased her natural timidity and sensitiveness that she was now very
constrained in her approaches to him, and seldom ventured to move or
speak in his presence; and he would not see that this timidity and
embarrassment were the natural results of his treatment, but attributed
it all to want of affection. He saw that she feared him, and to that
feeling alone he gave credit for her uniform obedience to his commands,
while he had no conception of the intense, but now almost despairing
love for him that burned in that little heart, and made the young life
one longing, earnest desire and effort to gain his affection.




CHAPTER SIXTH

   "Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of
    death, I will fear no evil; for thou art with me; thy rod and
    thy staff, they comfort me."


   "'Tis but the cruel artifice of fate,
    Thus to refine and vary on our woes,
    To raise us from despair and give us hopes,
    Only to plunge us in the gulf again,
    And make us doubly wretched."



It was Sabbath morning, and Elsie, ready dressed for church, stood in
the portico waiting for her father to come down and lift her into the
carriage, in which Adelaide, Louisa, and Enna were already seated.

The coachman was in his seat, and the horses, a pair of young and fiery
steeds purchased by Mr. Dinsmore only a few days before, were
impatiently stamping and tossing their heads, requiring quite an
exertion of strength to hold them in.

"I don't exactly like the actions of those horses, Ajax," remarked Mr.
Dinsmore, as he came out putting on his gloves; "I did not intend to
have them put in harness to-day. Why did you not give us the old bays?"

"Kase, Marster Horace, ole Kate she's got a lame foot, an' ole marster
he says dese youngsters is got to be used some time or nuther, an' I
reckoned I mout jis as well use 'em to-day."

"Do you feel quite sure of being able to hold them in?" asked his
master, glancing uneasily first at the horses and then at Elsie.

"Ki! marster, dis here chile ben able to hold in a'most anything,"
exclaimed the negro, exhibiting a double row of dazzlingly white teeth;
"an' besides, I'se drove dese here hosses twice 'fore now, an' dey went
splendid. Hold 'em in! Yes, sah, easy as nuffin."

"Elsie," said her father, still looking a little uneasy, in spite of
Ajax's boasting, "I think it would be just as well for you to stay at
home."

Elsie made no reply in words, but her answering look spoke such intense
disappointment, such earnest entreaty, that, saying, "Ah! well, I
suppose there is no real danger; and since you seem so anxious to go, I
will not compel you to stay at home," he lifted her into the carriage,
and seating himself beside her, ordered the coachman to drive on as
carefully as he could.

"Elsie, change seats with me," said Enna; "I want to sit beside Brother
Horace."

"No," replied Mr. Dinsmore, laying his hand on his little daughter's
shoulder, "Elsie's place is by me, and she shall sit nowhere else."

"Do you think we are in any danger of being run away with?" asked
Adelaide, a little anxiously as she observed him glancing once or twice
out of the window, and was at the same time sensible that their motion
was unusually rapid.

"The horses are young and fiery, but Ajax is an excellent driver," he
replied, evasively; adding, "You may be sure that if I had thought the
danger very great I would have left Elsie at home."

They reached the church without accident, but on their return the
horses took fright while going down a hill, and rushed along at a
furious rate, which threatened every instant to upset the carriage.

Elsie thought they were going very fast, but did not know that there
was real danger until her father suddenly lifted her from her seat, and
placing her between his knees, held her tightly, as though he feared
she would be snatched from his grasp.

Elsie looked up into his face. It was deadly pale, and his eyes were
fixed upon her with an expression of anguish.

"Dear papa," she whispered, "God will take care of us."

"I would give all I am worth to have you safe at home," he answered
hoarsely, pressing her closer and closer to him.

O! even in that moment of fearful peril, when death seemed just at
hand, those words, and the affectionate clasp of her father's arm, sent
a thrill of intense joy to the love-famished heart of the little girl.

But destruction seemed inevitable. Lora was leaning back, half fainting
with terror; Adelaide scarcely less alarmed, while Enna clung to her,
sobbing most bitterly.

Elsie alone preserved a cheerful serenity. She had built her house upon
the rock, and knew that it would stand. Her destiny was in her Heavenly
Father's hands, and she was content to leave it there. Even death had
no terrors to the simple, unquestioning faith of the little child who
had put her trust in Jesus.

But they were not to perish thus; for at that moment a powerful negro,
who was walking along the road, hearing an unusual sound, turned about,
caught sight of the vehicle coming toward him at such a rapid rate, and
instantly comprehending the peril of the travellers, planted himself in
the middle of the road, and, at the risk of life and limb, caught the
horses by the bridle--the sudden and unexpected check throwing them
upon their haunches, and bringing the carriage to an instant
stand-still.

"Thank God, we are saved! That fellow shall be well rewarded for his
brave deed," exclaimed Mr. Dinsmore, throwing open the carriage door.

Then, leaping to the ground, he lifted Elsie out, set her down, and
gave his hand to his sisters one after the other.

They were almost at the entrance of the avenue, and all preferred to
walk the short distance to the house rather than again trust themselves
to the horses.

Mr. Dinsmore lingered a moment to speak to the man who had done them
such good service, and to give some directions to the coachman; and
then, taking the hand of his little girl, who had been waiting for him,
he walked slowly on, neither of them speaking a word until they reached
the house, when he stooped and kissed her cheek, asking very kindly if
she had recovered from her fright.

"Yes, papa," she answered, in a quiet tone, "I knew that God would take
care of us. Oh! wasn't He good to keep us all from being killed?"

"Yes," he said, very gravely. "Go now and let mammy get you ready for
dinner."

As Elsie was sitting alone in her room that afternoon she was surprised
by a visit from Lora; it being very seldom that the elder girls cared
to enter her apartment.

Lora looked a little pale, and more grave and thoughtful than Elsie had
ever seen her. For a while she sat in silence, then suddenly burst out,
"Oh, Elsie! I can't help thinking all the time, what if we had been
killed! where would we all be now? where would _I_ have been? I believe
_you_ would have gone straight to heaven, Elsie; but _I_--oh! I should
have been with the rich man the minister read about this morning,
lifting up my eyes in torment."

And Lora covered her face with her hands and shuddered.

Presently she went on again. "I was terribly frightened, and so were
the rest--all but you, Elsie; tell me, _do_--what kept _you_ from being
afraid?"

"I was thinking," said Elsie gently, turning over the leaves of her
little Bible as she spoke, "of this sweet verse: 'Yea, though I walk
through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; for
thou art with me;' and oh, Lora! it made me so happy to think that
Jesus was there with me, and that if I were killed, I should only fall
asleep, to wake up again in His arms; then how could I be afraid?"

"Ah! I would give anything to feel as you do," said Lora, sighing. "But
tell me, Elsie, did you not feel afraid for the rest of us? I'm sure
you must know that _we_ are not Christians; we don't even pretend to
be."

Elsie blushed and looked down.

"It all passed so quickly, you know, Lora, almost in a moment," she
said, "so that I only had time to think of papa and myself; and I have
prayed so much for him that I felt quite sure God would spare him until
he should be prepared to die. It was very selfish, I know," she added
with deep humility; "but it was only for a moment, and I can't tell you
how thankful I was for _all_ our spared lives."

"Don't look so--as if you had done something very wicked, Elsie,"
replied Lora, sighing again. "I'm sure we have given you little enough
reason to care whatever becomes of us; but oh! Elsie, if you can only
tell me how to be a Christian, I mean now to try very hard; indeed, I
am determined never to rest until I am one."

"Oh, Lora, how glad I am!" cried Elsie, joyfully, "for I know that if
you are really in earnest, you will succeed; for no one ever yet failed
who tried aright. Jesus said, '_Every one_ that asketh, receiveth; and
he that seeketh, findeth; and to him that knocketh, it _shall_ be
opened.' Is not _that_ encouraging? And listen to what God says here in
_this_ verse: 'Ye shall seek me and _find_ me, when ye shall search for
me with _all your heart_.' So you see, dear Lora, if you will only seek
the Lord with your _whole heart_, you may be _sure_, _quite_ sure of
finding Him."

"Yes," said Lora, "but you have not answered my question; _how_ am I to
seek? that is, what means am I to use to get rid of my sins, and get a
new heart? how make myself pleasing in the sight of God? what must I
_do_ to be saved?"

"That is the very question the jailer put to Paul, and he answered,
'Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved,'" replied
Elsie, quickly turning to the chapter and pointing out the text with
her finger, that Lora might see that she had quoted it correctly. "And
in answer to your other question, 'How shall I get rid of my sins?' see
here: 'In that day there shall be a fountain opened to the house of
David and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem for sin and for
uncleanliness.' That is in Zechariah; then John tells us what that
fountain is when he says, 'The blood of Jesus Christ His Son cleanseth
us from all sin;' and again, 'Unto Him that loved us, and washed us
from our sins in His own blood.'"

"Yes, Elsie, but what must I _do_?" asked Lora, eagerly.

"Do, Lora? only _believe_" replied Elsie, in the same earnest tone.
"Jesus has done and suffered all that is necessary; and now we have
nothing at all to do but go to Him and be washed in that fountain;
believe Him when He says, 'I _give_ unto them eternal life;' just
accept the gift, and trust and love Him; that is the whole of it, and
it is so simple that even such a little girl as I can understand it."

"But surely, Elsie, I _can_, I _must do something_."

"Yes, God tells us to repent; and He says, 'Give me thine heart;' you
can do that; you can love Jesus; at least He will enable you to, if you
ask Him, and He will teach you to be sorry for your sins; the Bible
says, 'He is exalted to give repentance and remission of sins;' and if
you ask Him He will give them to you. It is true we cannot do anything
good of ourselves; without the help of the Holy Spirit we can do
nothing right, because we are so very wicked; but then we can always
get that help if we ask for it. Jesus said, 'Your Heavenly Father is
more willing to give His Holy Spirit to them that ask Him, than parents
are to give good gifts unto their children. Oh, Lora! don't be afraid
to ask for it; don't be afraid to come to Jesus, for He says, 'Him that
cometh unto Me, I will in nowise cast out;' and He is such a precious
Saviour, so kind and loving. But remember that you must come very
humbly; feeling that you are a great sinner, and not worthy to be
heard, and only hoping to be forgiven, because Jesus died. The Bible
says, 'God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble.'"

Lora lingered the greater part of the afternoon in Elsie's room, asking
her questions, or listening to her while she read the Scriptures, or
repeated some beautiful hymn, or spoke in her sweet, childish way, of
her own peace and joy in believing in Jesus.

But at last Lora went to her own room, and Elsie had another quiet
half-hour to herself before the tea-bell again called the family
together.

Elsie answered the summons with a light heart--a heart that thrilled
with a new and strange sense of happiness as she remembered her
father's evident anxiety for her safety during their perilous ride,
recalling each word and look, and feeling again, in imagination, the
clasp of his arm about her waist.

"Ah! surely papa does love me," she murmured to herself over and over
again; and when he met her at the table with a kind smile, and laying
his hand caressingly on her head, asked in an affectionate tone, "How
does my little daughter do this evening?" her cheeks flushed, and her
eyes grew bright with happiness, and she longed to throw her arms
around his neck, and tell him how very, very much she loved him.

But that was quite impossible at the table, and before all the family;
so she merely raised her glad eyes to his face and answered, "I am very
well, thank you, papa."

But, after all, this occurrence produced but little change in Elsie's
condition; her father treated her a little more affectionately for a
day or two, and then gradually returned to his ordinary stern, cold
manner; indeed, before the week was out, she was again in sad disgrace.

She was walking alone in the garden one afternoon, when her attention
was attracted by a slight fluttering noise which seemed to proceed from
an arbor near by, and on hastily turning in to ascertain the cause, she
found a tiny and beautiful humming-bird confined under a glass vase; in
its struggles to escape it was fluttering and beating against the walls
of its prison, thus producing the sound the little girl had heard in
passing.

Elsie was very tender-hearted, and could never see any living creature
in distress without feeling a strong desire to relieve its sufferings.
She knew that Arthur was in the habit of torturing every little insect
and bird that came in his way, and had often drawn his persecutions
upon herself by interfering in behalf of the poor victim; and now the
thought instantly flashed upon her that _this_ was some of his work,
and that he would return ere long to carry out his cruel purposes. Then
at once arose the desire to release the little prisoner and save it
further suffering, and without waiting to reflect a moment she raised
the glass, and the bird was gone.

Then she began to think with a little tremor, how angry Arthur would
be; but it was too late to think of that now, and, after all, she did
not stand in very great dread of the consequences, especially as she
felt nearly sure of her father's approval of what she had done, having
several times heard him reprove Arthur for his cruel practices.

Not caring to meet Arthur then, however, she hastily retreated to the
house, where she seated herself in the veranda with a book. It was a
very warm afternoon, and that, being on the east side of the house and
well protected by trees, shrubbery, and vines, was as cool a spot as
could be found on the place.

Arthur, Walter and Enna sat on the floor playing jack-stones--a
favorite game with them--and Louise was stretched full length on a
settee, buried in the latest novel.

"Hush!" she said, as Walter gave a sudden shout at a successful toss
Enna had just made; "can't you be quiet? Mamma is taking her afternoon
nap, and you will disturb her; and, besides, I cannot read in such a
noise."

Elsie wondered why Arthur did not go to see after his bird, but soon
forgot all about it in the interest with which she was poring over the
story of the "Swiss Family Robinson."

The jack-stone players were just finishing their game when they were
all startled by the sudden appearance of Mr. Horace Dinsmore upon the
scene, asking in a tone of great wrath who had been down in the garden
and liberated the humming-bird he had been at such pains to catch,
because it was one of a rare species, and he was anxious to add it to
his collection of curiosities.

Elsie was terribly frightened, and would have been glad at that moment
to sink through the floor; she dropped her book in her lap, and
clasping her hands over her beating heart, grew pale and red by turns,
while she seemed choking with the vain effort to speak and acknowledge
herself the culprit, as conscience told her she ought.

But her father was not looking at her; his eye was fixed on Arthur.

"I presume it was you, sir," he said very angrily, "and if so, you may
prepare yourself for either a flogging or a return to your prison, for
one or the other I am determined you shall have."

"I didn't _do_ it, any such thing," replied the boy, fiercely.

"Of course you will deny it," said his brother, "but we all know that
your word is good for nothing."

"Papa," said a trembling little voice, "Arthur did not do it; it was I."

"You," exclaimed her father, in a tone of mingled anger and
astonishment, as he turned his flashing eye upon her, "_you_, Elsie!
can it be _possible_ that this is _your_ doing?"

Elsie's book fell on the floor, and, covering her face with both hands,
she burst into sobs and tears.

"Come here to me this instant," he said, seating himself on the settee,
from which Louise had risen on his entrance. "Come here and tell me
what you mean by meddling with my affairs in this way."

"Please, papa, _please_ don't be so very angry with me," sobbed the
little girl, as she rose and came forward in obedience to his command;
"I didn't know it was your bird, and I didn't mean to be naughty."
