
"No, you _never mean_ to be naughty, according to your own account," he
said; "your badness is all accident; but nevertheless, I find you a
very troublesome, mischievous child; it was only the other day you
broke a valuable vase" (he forgot in his anger how little she had
really been to blame for that), "and now you have caused me the loss of
a rare specimen which I had spent a great deal of time and effort in
procuring. Really, Elsie, I am sorely tempted to administer a very
severe punishment."

Elsie caught at the arm of the settee for support.

"Tell me what you did it for; was it pure love of mischief?" asked her
father, sternly, taking hold of her arm and holding her up by it.

"No, papa," she answered almost under her breath. "I was sorry for the
little bird. I thought Arthur had put it there to torture it, and so I
let it go. I did not mean to do wrong, papa, indeed I did not," and the
tears fell faster and faster.

"Indeed," said he, "you had no business to meddle with it, let who
would have put it there. Which hand did it?"

"This one, papa," sobbed the child, indicating her right hand.

He took it in his and held it a moment, while the little girl stood
tremblingly awaiting what was to come next. He looked at the downcast,
tearful face, the bosom heaving with sobs, and then at the little
trembling hand he held, so soft, and white, and tender, and the
sternness of his countenance relaxed somewhat; it seemed next to
impossible to inflict pain upon anything so tender and helpless; and
for a moment he was half inclined to kiss and forgive her. But no, he
had been very much irritated at his loss, and the remembrance of it
again aroused his anger, and well-nigh extinguished the little spark of
love and compassion that had burned for a moment in his heart. She
should be punished, though he would not inflict physical pain.

"See, Elsie," laughed Louise, maliciously, "he is feeling in his pocket
for his knife. I suspect he intends to cut your hand off."

Elsie started, and the tearful eyes were raised to her father's face
with a look half of terrified entreaty, half of confidence that such
_could not_ be his intention.

"Hush, Louise!" exclaimed her brother, sternly; "you _know_ you are not
speaking truly, and that I would as soon think of cutting off my own
hand as my child's. You should never speak anything but truth,
especially to children."

"I think it is well enough to frighten them a little sometimes, and I
thought that was what you were going to do," replied Louise, looking
somewhat mortified at the rebuke.

"No," said her brother, "that is a very bad plan, and one which I shall
never adopt. Elsie will learn in time, if she does not know it now,
that I never utter a threat which I do not intend to carry out, and
never break my word."

He had drawn a handkerchief from his pocket while speaking.

"I shall tie this hand up, Elsie," he said, proceeding to do so; "those
who do not use their hands aright must be deprived of the use of them.
There! let me see if that will keep it out of mischief. I shall tie you
up hand and foot before long, if you continue such mischievous pranks.
Now go to your room, and stay there until tea-time."

Elsie felt deeply, bitterly disgraced and humiliated as she turned to
obey; and it needed not Arthur's triumphant chuckle nor the smirk of
satisfaction on Enna's face to add to the keen suffering of her wounded
spirit; this slight punishment was more to her than a severe
chastisement would have been to many another child; for the very
knowledge of her father's displeasure was enough at any time to cause
great pain to her sensitive spirit and gentle, loving heart.

Walter, who was far more tender-hearted than either his brother or
sister, felt touched by the sight of her distress, and ran after her to
say, "Never mind, Elsie; I am ever so sorry for you, and I don't think
you were the least bit naughty."

She thanked him with a grateful look, and a faint attempt to smile
through her tears; then hurried on to her room, where she seated
herself in a chair by the window, and laying her arms upon the sill,
rested her head upon them, and while the bitter tears fell fast from
her eyes she murmured half aloud, "Oh! why am I always so naughty?
always doing something to displease my dear papa? how I wish I could be
good, and make him love me! I am afraid he never will if I vex him so
often."

Then an earnest, importunate prayer for help to do right, and wisdom to
understand how to gain her father's love, went up from the almost
despairing little heart to Him whose ear is ever open unto the cry of
His suffering children. And thus between weeping, mourning, and
praying, an hour passed slowly away, and the tea-bell rang.

Elsie started up, but sat down again, feeling that she would much
rather do without her supper than show her tear-swollen eyes and
tied-up hand at the table.

But she was not to be left to her choice in the matter, for presently
there came a messenger bringing a peremptory command from her father
"to come down _immediately_ to her supper."

"Did you not hear the bell?" he asked, in his sternest tone, as she
tremblingly took her seat at his side.

"Yes, sir," she answered, in a low, tremulous tone.

"Very well, then; remember that you are always to come down the moment
the bell rings, unless you are directed otherwise, or are sick; and the
next time you are so late, I shall send you away without your meal."

"I don't want any supper, papa," she said, humbly.

"Hush," he replied, severely; "I will have no pouting or sulking; you
must just eat your supper and behave yourself. Stop this crying at
once," he added, in an undertone, as he spread some preserves on a
piece of bread and laid it on her plate, "or I shall take you away from
the table, and if I do, you will be very sorry."

He watched her a moment while she made a violent effort to choke back
her tears.

"What is your hand tied up for, Elsie?" asked her grandfather; "have
you been hurt?"

Elsie's face flushed painfully, but she made no reply.

"You must speak when you are spoken to," said her father; "answer your
grandfather's question at once."

"Papa tied it up, because I was naughty," replied the little girl,
vainly striving to suppress a sob.

Her father made a movement as if about to lead her from the table.

"O papa! _don't_" she cried, in terror; "I will be good."

"Let me have no more crying, then," said he; "this is shameful behavior
for a girl eight years old; it would be bad enough in a child of Enna's
age." He took out his handkerchief and wiped her eyes. "Now," said he,
"begin to eat your supper at once, and don't let me have to reprove you
again."

Elsie tried to obey, but it seemed very difficult, indeed almost
impossible, while she knew that her father was watching her closely,
and _felt_ that everybody else was looking at her and thinking, "What a
naughty little girl you are!"

"Oh!" thought the poor child, "if papa would only quit looking at me,
and the rest would forget all about me and eat their suppers, maybe I
could keep from crying." Then she sent up a silent prayer for help,
struggling hard to keep back the tears and sobs that were almost
suffocating her, and taking up her slice of bread, tried to eat.

She was very thankful to her Aunt Adelaide for addressing a question to
her papa just at that moment, thus taking his attention from her, and
then adroitly setting them all to talking until the little girl had had
time to recover her composure, at least in a measure.

"May I go to my room now, papa?" asked the timid little voice as they
rose from the table.

"No," he said, taking her hand and leading her out to the veranda,
where he settled himself in an easy-chair and lighted a cigar.

"Bring me that book that lies yonder on the settee," he commanded.

She brought it.

"Now," said he, "bring that stool and set yourself down here close at
my knee, and let me see if I can keep you out of mischief for an hour
or two."

"May I get a book to read, papa?" she asked timidly.

"No," said he shortly. "You may just do what I bid you, and nothing
more nor less."

She sat down as he directed, with her face turned toward him, and tried
to amuse herself with her own thoughts, and watching the expression of
his countenance as he read on and on, turning leaf after leaf, too much
interested in his book to take any further notice of her.

"How handsome my papa is!" thought the little girl, gazing with
affectionate admiration into his face. And then she sighed, and tears
trembled in her eyes again. She admired her father, and loved him, "oh!
_so_ dearly," as she often whispered to herself; but would she ever
meet with anything like a return of her  fond affection? There was an
aching void in her heart which nothing else could fill; must it always
be thus? was her craving for affection never to be satisfied? "O, papa!
my own papa, will you never love me?" mourned the sad little heart.
"Ah! if I could only be good always, perhaps he would; but I am so
often naughty;--whenever he begins to be kind I am sure to do something
to vex him, and then it is all over. Oh! I _wish_ I _could_ be good! I
will try very, _very_ hard. Ah! if I might climb on his knee now, and
lay my head on his breast, and put my arms round his neck, and tell him
how sorry I am that I have been naughty, and made him lose his bird;
and how much--oh! _how_ much I love him! But I know I never could tell
him _that_--I don't know how to express it; no _words could_, I am
sure. And if he would forgive me, and kiss me, and call me his dear
little daughter. Oh! will he _ever_ call me _that?_ Or if I, might only
stand beside him and lay my head on his shoulder, and he would put his
arm around me, it would make me _so_ happy."

An exclamation from Enna caused Elsie to turn her head, and suddenly
springing to her feet, she exclaimed in an eager, excited way, "Papa,
there is a carriage coming up the avenue--it must be visitors; please,
_please_, papa, let me go to my room."

"Why?" he asked coolly, looking up from his book, "why do you wish to
go?"

"Because I don't want to see them, papa," she said, hanging her head
and blushing deeply; "I don't want them to see me."

"You are not usually afraid of visitors," he replied in the same cool
tone.

"But they will see that my hand is tied up, and they will ask what is
the matter. O papa! do, _please_ do let me go quickly, before they get
here," she pleaded in an agony of shame and haste.

"No," said he, "I shall not let you go, if it were only to punish you
for getting off the seat where I bade you stay, without permission. You
will have to learn that I am to be obeyed at all times, and under all
circumstances. Sit down, and don't dare to move again until I give you
leave."

Elsie sat down without another word, but two bitter, scalding tears
rolled quickly down her burning cheeks.

"You needn't cry, Elsie," said her father; "it is only an old gentleman
who comes to see your grandfather on business, and who, as he never
notices children, will not be at all likely to ask any questions. I
hope you will learn some day, Elsie, to save your tears until there is
really some occasion for them."

The old gentleman had alighted while Mr. Dinsmore was speaking; Elsie
saw that he was alone, and the relief was so great that for once she
scarcely heeded her father's rebuke.

Another half-hour passed, and Mr. Dinsmore still sat reading, taking no
notice of Elsie, who, afraid to speak or move, was growing very weary
and sleepy. She longed to lay her head on her father's knee, but dared
not venture to take such a liberty; but at length she was so completely
overpowered by sleep as to do so unconsciously.

The sound of his voice pronouncing her name aroused her.

"You are tired and sleepy," said he; "if you would like to go to bed
you may do so."

"Thank you, papa," she replied, rising to her feet.

"Well," he said, seeing her hesitate, "speak, if you have anything to
say."

"I am very sorry I was naughty, papa. Will you please forgive me?" The
words were spoken very low, and almost with a sob.

"Will you try not to meddle in future, and not to cry at the table, or
pout and sulk when you are punished?" he asked in a cold, grave tone.

"Yes, sir, I will try to be a good girl always," said the humble little
voice.

"Then I will forgive you," he replied, taking the handkerchief off her
hand.

Still Elsie lingered. She felt as if she could not go without some
little token of forgiveness and love, some slight caress.

He looked at her with an impatient "Well?" Then, in answer to her mute
request, "No," he said, "I will not kiss you to-night; you have been
entirely too naughty. Go to your room at once."

Aunt Chloe was absolutely frightened by the violence of her child's
grief, as she rushed into the room and flung herself into her arms
weeping and sobbing most vehemently.

"What's de matter, darlin'?" she asked in great alarm.

"O mammy, mammy!" sobbed the child, "papa wouldn't kiss me! he said I
was too naughty. O mammy! will he ever love me now?"




CHAPTER SEVENTH


   "The smallest worm will turn, being trodden on."
                               --SHAKESPEARE, _Richard III_.

   "A blossom full of promise is life's joy,
    That never comes to fruit. Hope, for a time,
    Suns the young flow'ret in its gladsome light,
    And it looks flourishing--a little while--
    'Tis pass'd, we know not whither, but 'tis gone."
                                 --MISS LANDON.


It was Miss Day's custom to present to the parents of her pupils a
monthly report of their conduct and recitations. The regular time for
this had occurred once since Mr. Horace Dinsmore's return, when she, of
course, handed Elsie's to him.

It was very satisfactory, for Elsie was a most diligent scholar,
carrying her religious principles into that as well as everything else;
and disposed as Miss Day was to find fault with her, she could seldom
see any excuse for so doing, in either her conduct or recitations.

Mr. Dinsmore glanced over the report and handed it back, saying, "It is
all very good; very satisfactory indeed. I am glad to see that she is
industrious and well behaved, for I wish her to grow up an intelligent
and amiable woman."

Elsie, who was standing near, heard the words, and they sent a glow of
pleasure to her cheeks. She looked up eagerly; but her father turned
and walked away without taking any notice of her, and the glow of
happiness faded, and the soft eyes filled with tears of wounded feeling.

It was now time for a second report; but alas! the past month had been
a most unfortunate one for the little girl; the weather was very warm,
and she had felt languid and weak, and so much were her thoughts
occupied with the longing desire to gain her father's love, so
depressed were her spirits by her constant failure to do so, that she
often found it impossible to give her mind to her lessons.

Arthur, too, during much of the time before and since the week of his
imprisonment, had been more than usually annoying, shaking her chair
and jogging her elbow so frequently when she was writing, that her
copy-book presented by no means so good an appearance as usual; and
never had Miss Day made out so poor a report for her. She carried it
with much secret satisfaction to the little girl's father, and entered
a long complaint of the child's idleness and inattention.

"Send her to me," he said, angrily. "She will find me in my own room."

Miss Day had left Elsie in the school-room putting her desk in order
after the day's work, and she found her still there on her return.

"Elsie," said she, with a malicious smile, "your father wishes to see
you immediately. He is in his room."

The child turned red and pale by turns, and trembled so violently that
for a moment she was quite unable to move; for she guessed from Miss
Day's countenance what was probably in store for her.

"I advise you to go at once," said that lady, "for no doubt the longer
you wait the worse it will be for you."

At the same moment Mr. Dinsmore's voice was heard calling in a stern,
angry tone, "Elsie!"

Making a violent effort to control her feelings, she started up and
hastened to obey.

The door of his room stood open, and she walked in, asking in a
trembling voice, "Did you call me, papa?"

"Yes," said he, "I did. Come here to me."

He was sitting with the copy-book and report in his hand, and there was
much severity in both tone and look as he addressed her.

She obeyed instantly, but trembling violently, and with a face pale as
death, and eyes filled with tears. She lifted them pleadingly to his
face; and, touched by her evident terror and distress, he said in a
tone somewhat less stern, "Can you tell me, Elsie, how it happens that
your teacher brings me so bad a report of your conduct and lessons
during the past month? She says you have been very idle; and the report
tells the same story; and this copy-book presents a shameful
appearance."

The child answered only by tears and sobs.

They seemed to irritate him.

"Elsie," he said, sternly, "when I ask a question, I require an answer,
and that instantly."

"O papa!" she answered, pleadingly, "I couldn't study. I'm very
sorry--I'll try to do better--only don't be very angry with me, dear
papa."

"I am angry with you; very angry, indeed," said he in the same severe
tone, "and very strongly inclined to punish you. You _couldn't_ study,
eh? What reason can you assign, pray? Were you not well?"

"I don't know, sir," sobbed the little girl.

"You don't _know_? Very well, then, I think you could not be very ill
without knowing it, and so you seem to have no excuse at all to offer?
However, I will not inflict any punishment upon you _this_ time, as you
seem to be really sorry, and have promised to do better; but beware how
you let me see such a report as this, or hear such complaints of
idleness again, unless you wish to be _severely punished_; and I warn
you that unless your next copy-book presents a better appearance  than
this, I certainly shall punish you.

"There are a number of pages here that look quite well," he continued,
turning over the leaves; "that shows what you _can_ do, if you choose;
now there is an old saying, 'A bird that _can_ sing, and _won't_ sing,
must be _made_ to sing.' Hush!" as Elsie seemed about to speak; "not a
word. You may go now." And throwing himself back in his easy-chair, he
took up a newspaper and began to read.

Yet Elsie lingered; her heart so yearned for one word or look of
sympathy and love; she so longed to throw herself into his arms and
tell him how dearly, how _very_ dearly she loved him; she did so hunger
and thirst for one fond caress--ah! how could she go away without it
now, when for the very first time she found herself alone with him in
his own room, where she had never ventured before, but where she had
often been in her brightest dreams.

And so she lingered, trembling, hoping, fearing; but presently he
looked up with a cold "Why do you stand there? I gave you permission to
go; go at once." And with a sinking heart she turned away and sought
the solitude of her own room, there to weep, and mourn, and pray that
she might one day possess the love she so pined for, and bitterly to
reproach herself for having by the failures of the past month put it
farther from her.

And soon a thought came to her which added greatly to her distress. If
Arthur continued his persecutions, how could she make the next
copy-book more presentable? and in case it were not, her father had
said positively that he would punish her; and oh! how could she bear
punishment from him, when a word or look of displeasure almost broke
her heart?

Miss Day seldom remained in the school-room during the whole of the
writing hour, and sometimes the older girls were also absent, so that
Arthur had ample opportunity to indulge his mischievous propensities;
for Elsie was above the meanness of telling tales, and had she not
been, Arthur was so great a favorite with his mother that she would
have brought a great deal of trouble upon herself by so doing.

She therefore saw no escape from the dreaded punishment, unless she
could persuade the perverse boy to cease his annoyances; and of that
there was little hope.

But she carried her trouble to her Heavenly Father, and asked Him to
help her. She was still on her knees, pouring out her sobs and prayers,
when some one knocked at the door.

She rose and opened it to find her Aunt Adelaide standing there.

"Elsie," she said, "I am writing to Miss Rose; have you any word to
send? You may write a little note, if you choose, and I will enclose it
in my letter. But what is the matter, child?" she suddenly exclaimed,
kindly taking the little girl's hand in hers.

With many tears and sobs Elsie told her the whole story, not omitting
her papa's threat, and her fear that she could not, on account of
Arthur's persecutions, avoid incurring the punishment.

Adelaide's sympathies were enlisted, and she drew the sobbing child to
her side, saying, as she pressed a kiss on her cheek, "Never mind,
Elsie, I will take my book or needle-work to the school-room every day,
and sit there during the writing hour. But why don't you tell your papa
about it?"

"Because I don't like to tell tales, Aunt Adelaide, and it would make
your mamma so angry with me; and besides, I can't tell papa anything."

"Ah, I understand! and no wonder; he is strangely stern to the poor
child. I mean to give him a good talking to," murmured Adelaide, more
as if thinking aloud than talking to Elsie.

Then, kissing the little girl again, she rose hastily and left the
room, with the intention of seeking her brother; but he had gone out;
and when he returned he brought several gentlemen with him, and she had
no opportunity until the desire to interfere in the matter had passed
from her mind.

"And it shall come to pass, that before they call, I will answer, and
while they are yet speaking, I will hear." The promise had been
fulfilled to Elsie, and help had been sent her in her trouble.

When her Aunt Adelaide left her, Elsie--first carefully locking the
door to guard against a surprise visit from Enna--went to her bureau,
and unlocking a drawer, took out a purse she was knitting for her
father, to replace the one she had given to Miss Allison.

She had commenced it before his return, and having spent upon it nearly
every spare moment since, when she could feel secure from intrusion,
she now had it nearly completed. Ah! many a silent tear had fallen as
she worked, and many a sigh over disappointed hopes had been woven into
its bright meshes of gold and blue.

But now she had been much comforted and encouraged by her aunt's
sympathy and kind promise of assistance, and, though there were still
traces of tears upon it, the little face looked quite bright and
cheerful again as she settled herself in her little sewing chair, and
began her work.

The small white fingers moved right briskly, the bright shining needles
glancing in and out, while the thoughts, quite as busy, ran on
something in this fashion: "Ah! I am so sorry I have done so badly the
past month; no wonder papa was vexed with me. I don't believe I ever
had such a bad report before. What has come over me? It seems as if I
_can't_ study, and must have a holiday. I wonder if it is all laziness?
I'm afraid it is, and that I ought to be punished. I wish I could shake
it off, and feel industrious as I used to. I will try _very_ hard to do
better this month, and perhaps I can. It is only one month, and then
June will be over, and Miss Day is going North to spend July and
August, and maybe September, and so we shall have a long holiday.
Surely I can stand it one month more; it will soon be over, though it
does seem a long time, and besides, this month we are not to study so
many hours, because it is so warm; and there's to be no school on
Saturdays; none to-morrow, so that I can finish this. Ah! I wonder if
papa will be pleased?" and she sighed deeply. "I'm afraid it will be a
long, long time before he will be pleased with me again. I have
displeased him twice this week--first about the bird, and now this bad
report, and that shameful copy-book. But oh! I will try _so_ hard next
month, and dear Aunt Adelaide will keep Arthur from troubling me, and
I'm determined my copy-book shall look neat, and not have a single blot
in it.

"I wonder how I shall spend the vacation? Last summer I had such a
delightful visit at Ashlands; and then they were here all the rest of
the time. It was then poor Herbert had such a dreadful time with his
hip. Ah! how thankful I ought to be that I am not lame, and have always
been so healthy. But I'm afraid papa won't let me go there this summer,
nor ask them to visit me, because he said he thought Lucy was not a
suitable companion for me. I _was_ very naughty when she was here, and
I've been naughty a great many times since. Oh! dear, shall I never,
never learn to be good? It seems to me I am naughty now much oftener
than I used to be before papa came home. I'm afraid he will soon begin
to punish me severely, as he threatened to-day. I wonder what he means?"

A crimson tide suddenly swept over the fair face and neck, and dropping
her work, she covered her face with her hands. "Oh! he couldn't,
_couldn't_ mean that! how could I ever bear it! and yet if it would
make me really good, I think I wouldn't mind the pain--but the shame
and disgrace! oh! it would break my heart. I could never hold up my
head again! Oh! _can_ he mean that? But I must just try to be so very
good that I will never deserve punishment, and then it will make no
difference to me what he means." And with this consolatory reflection
she took up her work again.

"Mammy, is papa in his room?" asked Elsie, the next afternoon, as she
put the finishing touches to her work.

"No, darlin', Marster Horace he rode out wid de strange gentlemen more
than an hour ago."

Elsie laid her needles away in her work-basket, and opening her
writing-desk, selected a bit of note-paper, on which she wrote in her
very best hand, "A present for my dear papa, from his little daughter
Elsie!" This she carefully pinned to the purse, and then carried it to
her papa's room, intending to leave it on his toilet-table.

Fearing that he might possibly have returned, she knocked gently at the
door, but receiving no answer, opened it, and went in; but she had not
gone more than half way across the room when she heard his voice behind
her, asking, in a tone of mingled surprise and displeasure, "What are
you doing here in my room, in my absence, Elsie?"

She started, and turned round, pale and trembling, and lifting her eyes
pleadingly to his face, silently placed the purse in his hand.

He looked first at it, and then at her.

"I made it for you, dear papa," she said, in a low, tremulous tone; "do
please take it."

"It is really very pretty," he said, examining it; "is it possible it
is your work? I had no idea you had so much taste and skill. Thank you,
daughter; I shall take it, and use it with a great deal of pleasure."

He took her hand as he spoke, and sitting down, lifted her to his knee,
saying, "Elsie, my child, why do you always seem so afraid of me? I
don't like it."

With a sudden impulse she threw her arms round his neck, and pressed
her lips to his cheek; then dropping her head on his breast, she
sobbed: "O papa! _dear_ papa, I _do love_ you so _very_ dearly! will
you not love me? O papa! love me a _little_. I know I've been naughty
very often, but I will _try_ to be good."

Then for the first time he folded her in his arms and kissed her
tenderly, saying, in a moved tone, "I _do_ love you, my darling, my own
little daughter."

Oh! the words were sweeter to Elsie's ear than the most delicious
music! her joy was too great for words, for anything but tears.

"Why do you cry so, my darling?" he asked, soothingly, stroking her
hair, and kissing her again and again.

"O papa! because I am so happy, so _very_ happy," she sobbed.

"Do you indeed care so very much for my love?" he asked; "then, my
daughter, you must not tremble and turn pale whenever I speak to you,
as though I were a cruel tyrant."

"O papa! I cannot help it, when you look and speak so sternly. I love
you so dearly I cannot bear to have you angry with me; but I am not
afraid of you now."

"That is right," he said, caressing her again. "But there is the
tea-bell," he added, setting her down. "Go into the dressing-room
there, and bathe your eyes, and then come to me."

She hastened to do his bidding, and then taking her hand he led her
down and seated her in her usual place by his side.

There were visitors, and all his conversation was addressed to them and
the older members of the family, but he now and then bestowed a kind
look upon his little girl, and attended carefully to all her wants; and
Elsie was very happy.

Everything now went on very pleasantly with our little friend for some
days; she did not see a great deal of her father, as he was frequently
away from home for a day or two, and, when he returned, generally
brought a number of visitors with him; but whenever he did notice her
it was very kindly, and she was gradually overcoming her fear of him,
and constantly hoping that the time would soon come when he would have
more leisure to bestow upon her. She was happy now, and with a mind at
ease, was able to learn her lessons well; and as her Aunt Adelaide
faithfully kept her promise, and thus freed her from Arthur's
annoyances, she was enabled to do justice to her writing. She took
great pains, her copy-book showed a marked improvement in her
penmanship, and its pages had not yet been defaced by a single blot, so
that she was looking forward with pleasing anticipations to the time
when her report should again be presented to her father.

But, alas! one unfortunate morning it happened that Miss Day was in a
very bad humor indeed--peevish, fretful, irritable, and unreasonable to
the last degree; and, as usual, Elsie was the principal sufferer from
her ill-humor. She found fault with everything the little girl did;
scolded her, shook her, refused to explain the manner of working out a
very difficult example, or to permit her to apply to any one else for
assistance, and then punished her because it was done wrong; and when
the child could no longer keep back her tears, called her a baby for
crying, and a dunce for not understanding her arithmetic better.

All this Elsie bore meekly and patiently, not answering a word; but her
meekness seemed only to provoke the governess the more; and finally,
when Elsie came to recite her last lesson, she took pains to put her
questions in the most perplexing form, and scarcely allowing the child
an instant to begin her reply, answered them herself; then, throwing
down the book, scolded her vehemently for her bad lesson, and marked it
in her report as a complete failure.

Poor Elsie could bear no more, but bursting into tears and sobs, said:
"Miss Day, I _did_ know my lesson, every word of it, if you had asked
the questions as usual, or had given me time to answer."

"_I_ say that you did _not_ know it; that it was a complete failure,"
replied Miss Day, angrily; "and you shall just sit down and learn it,
every word, over."

"I _do_ know it, if you will hear me right," said Elsie, indignantly,
"and it is very unjust in you to mark it a failure."

"Impudence!" exclaimed Miss Day, furiously; "how _dare_ you contradict
me? I shall take you to your father."

And seizing her by the arm, she dragged her across the room, and
opening the door, pushed her into the passage.

"Oh! don't, Miss Day," pleaded the little girl, turning toward her,
pale and tearful, "don't tell papa."

"I will! so just walk along with you," was the angry rejoinder, as she
pushed her before her to Mr. Dinsmore's door. It stood open, and he sat
at his desk, writing.

"What is the matter?" he asked, looking up as they appeared before the
door.

"Elsie has been very impertinent, sir," said Miss Day; "she not only
accused me of injustice, but contradicted me flatly."

"Is it _possible!_" said he, frowning angrily. "Come here to me, Elsie,
and tell me, is it _true_ that you contradicted your teacher?"

"Yes, papa," sobbed the child.

"Very well, then, I shall certainly punish you, for I will never allow
anything of the kind."

As he spoke he picked up a small ruler that lay before him, at the same
time taking Elsie's hand as though he meant to use it on her.

"O papa!" she cried, in a tone of agonized entreaty.

But he laid it down again, saying: "No, I shall punish you by depriving
you of your play this afternoon, and giving you only bread and water
for your dinner. Sit down there," he added, pointing to a stool. Then,
with a wave of his hand to the governess, "I think she will not be
guilty of the like again, Miss Day."

The governess left the room, and Elsie sat down on her stool, crying
and sobbing violently, while her father went on with his writing.

"Elsie," he said, presently, "cease that noise; I have had quite enough
of it."

She struggled to suppress her sobs, but it was almost impossible, and
she felt it a great relief when a moment later the dinner-bell rang,
and her father left the room.

In a few moments a servant came in, carrying on a small waiter a
tumbler of water, and a plate with a slice of bread on it.

"Dis am _drefful_ poor fare, Miss Elsie," he said, setting it down
beside her, "but Massa Horace he say it all you can hab; but if you say
so, dis chile tell ole Phoebe to send up somethin' better fore Massa
Horace gits through his dinner."

"Oh! no, thank you, Pompey; you're very kind, but I would not disobey
or deceive papa," replied the little girl, earnestly; "and I am not at
all hungry."

He lingered a moment, seeming loath to leave her to dine upon such fare.

"You had better go now, Pompey," she said gently; "I am afraid you will
be wanted."

He turned and left the room, muttering something about "disagreeable,
good-for-nothing Miss Day!"

Elsie felt no disposition to eat; and when her father returned, half an
hour afterward, the bread and water were still untouched.

"What is the meaning of this?" he asked in a stern, angry tone; "why
have you not eaten what I sent you?"

"I am not hungry, papa," she said humbly.

"Don't tell me that," he replied, "it is nothing but stubbornness; and
I shall not allow you to show such a temper. Take up that bread this
moment and eat it. You shall eat every crumb of the bread and drink
every drop of the water."

She obeyed him instantly, breaking off a bit of bread and putting it in
her mouth, while he stood watching her with an air of stern, cold
determination; but when she attempted to swallow, it seemed utterly
impossible.

"I cannot, papa," she said, "it chokes me."

"You _must_," he replied; "I am going to be obeyed. Take a drink of
water, and that will wash it down."

It was a hard task, but seeing that there was no escape, she struggled
to obey, and at length every crumb of bread and drop of water had
disappeared.

"Now, Elsie," said her father, in a tone of great severity, "never
_dare_ to show me such a temper as this again; you will not escape so
easily next time; remember I am to be obeyed _always_; and when I send
you anything to eat, _you are to eat it_."

It had not been temper at all, and his unjust severity almost broke her
heart; but she could not say one word in her own defence.

He looked at her a moment as she sat there trembling and weeping; then
saying, "I forbid you to leave this room without my permission; don't
venture to disobey me, Elsie; sit where you are until I return," he
turned to go.

"Papa," she asked, pleadingly, "may I have my books, to learn my
lessons for to-morrow."

"Certainly," he said; "I will send a servant with them."

"And my Bible too, please, papa."

"Yes, yes," he answered impatiently, as he went out and shut the door.

Jim was just bringing up Elsie's horse, as Mr. Dinsmore passed through
the hall, and he stepped out to order it back to the stable, saying
that Miss Elsie was not going to ride.

"What is the trouble with Elsie?" asked his sister Adelaide, as he
returned to the drawing-room and seated himself beside her.

"She has been impertinent to her governess, and I have confined her to
my room for the rest of the day," he replied, rather shortly.

"Are you _sure_, Horace, that Elsie was so much to blame?" asked his
sister, speaking in a tone too low to reach any ear but his. "I am
certain, from what Lora tells me, that Miss Day is often cruelly unjust
to her; more so than to any other of her pupils."

He looked at her with a good deal of surprise.

"Are you not mistaken?" he asked.

"No! it is a positive fact that she does at times _really abuse_ her."

"Indeed! I shall certainly not allow _that_" he said, coloring with
anger.

"But in this instance, Adelaide," he added thoughtfully, "I think you
must be mistaken, for Elsie _acknowledged_ that she had been
impertinent. I did not condemn her unheard, stern and severe as you
think me."

"If she _was_, Horace, believe me it must have been only after great
provocation, and her acknowledgment of it is no proof at all, to my
mind; for Elsie is so humble, she would think she _must_ have been
guilty of impertinence if Miss Day accused her of it."

"Surely not, Adelaide; she is by no means wanting in sense," he
replied, in a tone of incredulity, not unmixed with annoyance.

Then he sat thinking a moment, half inclined to go to his child and
inquire more particularly into the circumstances, but soon relinquished
the idea, saying to himself, "No; if she does not choose to be frank
with me, and say what she can in her own defence, she _deserves_ to
suffer; and besides, she showed such stubbornness about eating that
bread."

He was very proud, and did not like to acknowledge even to _himself_
that he had punished his child unjustly--much less to _her_; and it was
not until near tea-time that he returned to his room, entering so
softly that Elsie did not hear him.

She was sitting just where he had left her, bending over her Bible, an
expression of sadness and deep humility on the sweet little face, so
young and fair and innocent. She did not seem aware of his presence
until he was close beside her, when, looking up with a start, she said
in a voice full of tears, "Dear papa, I am very sorry for all my
naughtiness; will you please forgive me?"

"Yes," he said, "certainly I will, if you are really sorry;" and
stooping, he kissed her coldly, saying, "Now go to your room, and let
Chloe dress you for tea."

She rose at once, gathered up her books, and went out.

The little heart was very sad; for her father's manner was so cold she
feared he would never love her again. And she was particularly
distressed by the bad mark given her for recitation that day, because
she knew the time was now drawing very near when her report must be
handed in to her papa; and the delight with which she had hitherto
looked forward to receiving his well-merited approbation, was now
changed to fear, and dread of his displeasure;  yet she knew she had
not deserved the bad mark, and again and again she  determined that she
would tell her father all about it; but his manner had  now become so
cold and stern that she could not summon up courage to do  so, but put
it off from day to day, until it was too late.




CHAPTER EIGHTH.


   "He that pursues an act that is attended
    With doubtful issues, for the means, had need
    Of policy and force to make it speed."
                            --T. NABB's _Unfortunate Mother._

              "Joy never feasts so high,
    As when the first course is of misery."
                                 --SUCKLING's _Aglaura._


It was Friday, and the next morning was the when the reports were to be
presented. School had closed, and all but Elsie had already left the
room; but she was carefully arranging the books, writing and drawing
materials, etc., in her desk, for she was very neat and orderly in her
habits.

When she had quite finished her work she took up her report-book, and
glanced over it. As her eye rested for an instant upon the one bad
mark, she sighed a little, and murmured to herself, "I am _so_ sorry; I
wish papa knew how little I really deserved it. I don't know why I
never can get the courage to tell him."

Then, laying it aside, she opened her copy-book and turned over the
leaves with unalloyed pleasure, for not one of its pages was defaced by
a single blot, and from beginning to end it gave evidence of
painstaking carefulness and decided improvement.

"Ah! surely _this_ will please dear papa!" she exclaimed, half aloud.
"How good Aunt Adelaide was to sit here with me!"

Then, putting it carefully in its place, she closed and locked the
desk, and carrying the key to her room, laid it on the mantel, where
she was in the habit of keeping it.

Now it so happened that afternoon that Arthur, who had made himself
sick by over-indulgence in sweetmeats, and had in consequence been
lounging about the house doing nothing for the last day or two,
remained at home while all the rest of the family were out, walking,
riding, or visiting.

He was not usually very fond of reading, but while lying on the lounge
in the nursery, very much in want of some amusement, it suddenly
occurred to him that he would like to look at a book he had seen Elsie
reading that morning.

To be sure the book belonged to her, and she was not there to be
consulted as to her willingness to lend it; but that made no difference
to Arthur, who had very little respect for the rights of property,
excepting where his own were concerned.

Elsie, he knew, was out, and Chloe in the kitchen; so, feeling certain
there would be no one to interfere with him, he went directly to the
little girl's room to look for the book. He soon found it lying on the
mantel; but the desk-key lay right beside it, and as he caught sight of
that he gave a half scream of delight, for he guessed at once to what
lock it belonged, and felt that he now could accomplish the revenge he
had plotted ever since the affair of the watch.

He put out his hand to take it, but drew it back again, and stood for a
moment balancing in his mind the chances of detection.

He could deface Elsie's copy-book, but Adelaide could testify to the
little girl's carefulness and the neatness of her work up to that very
day, for she had been in the school-room that morning during the
writing hour. But then Adelaide had just left home to pay a visit to a
friend living at some distance, and would not return for several weeks,
so there was little danger from that quarter. Miss Day, to be sure,
knew the appearance of Elsie's book quite as well, but there was still
less danger of her interference, and he was pretty certain no one else
knew.

So he decided to run the risk, and laying down the book he took the
key, went to the door, looked carefully up and down the hall to make
sure of not being seen by any of the servants, and having satisfied
himself on that point, hurried to the school-room, unlocked Elsie's
desk, took out her copy-book, and dipping a pen in the ink, proceeded
deliberately to blot nearly every page in it; on some he made a large
blot, on others a small one, and on some two or three; and also
scribbled between the lines and on the margin, so as completely to
deface poor Elsie's work.

But to do Arthur justice, though he knew his brother would be pretty
sure to be very angry with Elsie, he did not know of the threatened
punishment. He stopped once or twice as he thought he heard a footstep,
and shut down the lid until it had passed, when he raised it again and
went on with his wicked work. It did not take long, however, and he
soon replaced the copy-book in the precise spot in which he had found
it, wiped the pen, and put it carefully back in its place, relocked the
desk, hurried back to Elsie's room, put the key just where he had found
it, and taking the book, returned to the nursery without having met any
one.

He threw himself down on a couch and tried to read, but in vain; he
could not fix his attention upon the page--could think of nothing but
the mischief he had done, and its probable consequences; and now, when
it was too late, he more than half repented; yet as to confessing and
thus saving Elsie from unmerited blame, he did not for a single moment
entertain the thought. But at length it suddenly occurred to him that
if it became known that he had been into Elsie's room to get the book
he might be suspected; and he started up with the intention of
replacing it. But he found that it was too late; she had already
returned, for he heard her voice in the hall; so he lay down again, and
kept the book until she came in search of it.

He looked very guilty as the little girl came in, but not seeming to
notice it, she merely said, "I am looking for my book. I thought
perhaps some one might have brought it in here. Oh! _you_ have it,
Arthur! well, keep it, if you wish; I can read it just as well another
time."

"Here, take it," said he roughly, pushing it toward her; "I don't want
it; 'tisn't a bit pretty."

"I think it is very interesting, and you are quite welcome to read it
if you wish," she answered mildly; "but if you don't care to, I will
take it."

"Young ladies and gentlemen," said the governess, as they were about
closing their exercises the next morning, "this is the regular day for
the reports, and they are all made out. Miss Elsie, here is yours;
bring your copy-book, and carry both to your papa."

Elsie obeyed, not without some trembling, yet hoping, as there was but
_one_ bad mark in the report and the copy-book showed such evident
marks of care and painstaking, her papa would not be very seriously
displeased.

It being the last day of the term, the exercises of the morning had
varied somewhat from the usual routine, and the writing hour had been
entirely omitted; thus it happened that Elsie had not opened her
copy-book, and was in consequence still in ignorance of its sadly
altered appearance.

She found her father in his room. He took the report first from her
hand, and glancing over it, said with a slight frown, "I see you have
one _very_ bad mark for recitation; but as there is only one, and the
others are remarkably good, I will excuse it."

Then taking the copy-book and opening it, much to Elsie's surprise and
alarm he gave her a glance of great displeasure, turned rapidly over
the leaves, then laying it down, said in his sternest tones, "I see I
shall have to keep my promise, Elsie."

"What, papa?" she asked, turning pale with terror.

"_What!_" said he! "do you ask me what? Did I not tell you _positively_
that I would _punish_ you if your copy-book this month did not present
a better appearance than it did last?"

"O papa! does it not? I tried so very hard; and there are no blots in
it."

"No blots?" said he; "what do you call these?" and he turned over the
leaves again, holding the book so that she could see them, and showing
that almost every one was blotted in several places.

Elsie gazed at them in unfeigned astonishment; then looking up into his
face, she said earnestly but fearfully, "Papa, I did not do it."

"Who did, then?" he asked.

"Indeed, papa, I do not know," she replied.

"I must inquire into this business," he said, rising, "and if it is not
your fault you shall not be punished; but if I find you have been
telling me a falsehood, Elsie, I shall punish you much more severely
than if you had not denied your fault."

And taking her by the hand as he spoke, he led her back to the
school-room.

"Miss Day," said he, showing the book, "Elsie says these blots are not
her work; can you tell me whose they are?"

"Miss Elsie _generally_ tells the truth, sir," replied Miss Day,
sarcastically, "but I must say that in this instance I think she has
failed, as her desk has a good lock, and she herself keeps the key."

"Elsie," he asked, turning to her, "is this so?"

"Yes, papa."

"And have you ever left your desk unlocked, or the key lying about?"

"No, papa. I am quite certain I have not," she answered unhesitatingly,
though her voice trembled, and she grey very pale.

"Very well, then, _I_ am quite certain you have told me a falsehood,
since it is evident this _must_ have been your work. Elsie, I can
forgive anything but falsehood, but that I _never will_ forgive. Come
with me. I shall teach you to speak the truth to _me_ at least, if to
no one else," and taking her hand again, he led, or rather dragged, her
from the room, for he was terribly angry, his face fairly pale with
passion.

Lora came in while he was speaking and, certain that _Elsie_ would
never be caught in a falsehood, her eye quickly sought Arthur's desk.

He was sitting there with a very guilty countenance.

She hastily crossed the room, and speaking in a low tone, said,
"Arthur, _you_ have had a hand in this business I very well know; now
confess it quickly, or Horace will half kill Elsie."

"You don't know anything about it," said he doggedly.

"Yes, I do," she answered; "and if you do not speak out at once, _I_
shall save Elsie, and find means to prove your guilt afterwards; so you
had much better confess."

"Go away," he exclaimed angrily, "I have nothing to confess."

Seeing it was useless to try to move him, Lora turned away and hurried
to Horace's room, which, in her haste, she entered without knocking, he
having fortunately neglected to fasten the door. She was just in time;
he had a small riding whip in his hand, and Elsie stood beside him pale
as death, too much frightened even to cry, and trembling so that she
could scarcely stand.

He turned an angry glance on his sister as she entered; but taking no
notice of it, she exclaimed eagerly, "Horace, don't punish Elsie, for I
am certain she is innocent."

He laid down the whip asking, "_How_ do you know it? what _proof_ have
you? I shall be very glad to be convinced," he added, his countenance
relaxing somewhat in its stern and angry expression.

"In the first place," replied his sister, "there is Elsie's established
character for truthfulness--in all the time she has been with us, we
have ever found her perfectly truthful in word and deed. And then,
Horace, what motive could she have had for spoiling her book, knowing
as she did that certain punishment would follow? Besides, I am sure
Arthur is at the bottom of this, for though he will not acknowledge, he
does not deny it. Ah! yes, and now I recollect, I saw and examined
Elsie's book only yesterday, and it was then quite free from blots."

A great change had come over her brother's countenance while she was
speaking.

"Thank you, Lora," he said, cordially, as soon as she had done, "you
have quite convinced me, and saved me from punishing Elsie as unjustly
as severely. That last assurance I consider quite sufficient of itself
to establish her innocence."

Lora turned and went out feeling very happy, and as she closed the
door, Elsie's papa took her in his arms, saying in loving, tender
tones, "My poor little daughter! my own darling child! I have been
cruelly unjust to you, have I not?"

"Dear papa, you thought I deserved it," she said, with a burst of tears
and sobs, throwing her arms around his neck, and laying her head on his
breast.

"Do you love me, Elsie, dearest?" he asked, folding her closer to his
heart.

"Ah! so very, _very_ much! better than all the world beside. O papa! if
you would only love me." The last word was almost a sob.

"I do, my darling, my own precious child," he said, caressing her again
and again. "I do love my little girl, although I may at times seem cold
and stern; and I am more thankful than words can express that I have
been saved from punishing her unjustly. I could never forgive myself if
I had done it. I would rather have lost half I am worth; ah! I fear it
would have turned all her love for me into hatred; and justly, too."

"No, papa, oh! no, _no; nothing_ could ever do that!" and the little
arms were clasped closer and closer about his neck, and the tears again
fell like rain, as she timidly pressed her quivering lips to his cheek.

"There, there daughter! don't cry any more; we will try to forget all
about it, and talk of something else," he said soothingly. "Elsie,
dear, your Aunt Adelaide thinks perhaps you were not so very much to
blame the other day; and now I want you to tell me all the
circumstances; for though I should be very sorry to encourage you to
find fault with your teacher, I am by no means willing to have you
abused."

"Please, papa, don't ask me," she begged. "Aunt Lora was there, and she
will tell you about it."

"No, Elsie," he said, very decidedly; "I want the story from _you_; and
remember, I want _every word_ that passed between you and Miss Day, as
far as you can possibly recall it."

Seeing that he was determined, Elsie obeyed him, though with evident
reluctance, and striving to put Miss Day's conduct in as favorable a
light as consistent with truth, while she by no means extenuated her
own; yet her father listened with feelings of strong indignation.

"Elsie," he said when she had done, "if I had known all this at the
time, I should not have punished you at all. Why did you not tell me,
my daughter, how you have been ill treated and provoked?"

"O papa! I could not; you know you did not ask me."

"I did ask you if it was true that you contradicted her, did I not?"

"Yes, papa, and it was true."

"You ought to have told me the whole story though; but I see how it
was--I frightened you by my sternness. Well, daughter," he added,
kissing her tenderly, "I shall endeavor to be less stern in future, and
you must try to be less timid and more at your ease with me."

"I will, papa," she replied meekly; "but indeed I cannot help feeling
frightened when you are angry with me."

Mr. Dinsmore sat there a long time with his little daughter on his
knee, caressing her more tenderly than ever before; and Elsie was very
happy, and talked more freely to him than she had ever done, telling
him of her joys and her sorrows; how dearly she had loved Miss
Allison--what happy hours they had spent together in studying the Bible
and in prayer--how grieved she was when her friend went away--and how
intensely she enjoyed the little letter now and then received from her;
and he listened to it all, apparently both pleased and interested,
encouraging her to go on by an occasional question or a word of assent
or approval.

"What is this, Elsie?" he asked, taking hold of the chain she always
wore around her neck, and drawing the miniature from her bosom.

But as he touched the spring the case flew open, revealing the sweet,
girlish face, it needed not Elsie's low murmured "Mamma" to tell him
who that lovely lady was.

He gazed upon it with emotion, carried back in memory to the time when
for a few short months she had been his own most cherished treasure.
Then, looking from it to his child, he murmured, "Yes, she is very
like--the same features, the same expression, complexion, hair and
all--will be the very counterpart of her if she lives."

"Dear papa, am I like mamma?" asked Elsie, who had caught a part of his
words.

"Yes, darling, very much indeed, and I hope you will grow more so."

"You loved mamma?" she said inquiringly.

"Dearly, _very_ dearly."

"O papa! _tell_ me about her! _do_, dear papa," she pleaded eagerly.

"I have not much to tell," he said, sighing. "I knew her only for a few
short months ere we were torn asunder, never to meet again on earth."

"But we may hope to meet her in heaven, dear papa," said Elsie softly,
"for she loved Jesus, and if we love Him we shall go there too when we
die. Do you love Jesus, papa?" she timidly inquired, for she had seen
him do a number of things which she knew to be wrong--such as riding
out for pleasure on the Sabbath, reading secular newspapers, and
engaging in worldly conversation--and she greatly feared he did not.

But instead of answering her question, he asked, "Do you, Elsie?"

"Oh! yes, sir; very _very_ much; even better than I love you, my own
dear papa."

"How do you know?" he asked, looking keenly into her face.

"Just as I know that I love you, papa, or any one else," she replied,
lifting her eyes to his face in evident surprise at the strangeness of
the question.

"Ah, papa," she added in her own sweet, simple way, "I do so love to
talk of Jesus; to tell Him all my troubles, and ask Him to forgive my
sins and make me holy; and then it is so sweet to know that He loves
me, and will _always_ love me, even if no one else does."

He kissed her very gravely, and set her down, saying, "Go now, my
daughter, and prepare for dinner; it is almost time for the bell."

"You are not displeased, papa?" she inquired, looking up anxiously into
his face.

"No, darling, not at all," he replied, stroking her hair. "Shall I ride
with my little girl this afternoon?"

"Oh papa! do you really mean it? I shall be so glad!" she exclaimed
joyfully.

"Very well, then," he said, "it is settled. But go now; there is the
bell. No, stay!" he added quickly, as she turned to obey; "think a
moment and tell me where you put the key of your desk yesterday, for it
must have been then the mischief was done. Had you it with you when you
rode out?"

Suddenly Elsie's face flushed, and she exclaimed Eagerly, "Ah! I
remember now! I left it on the mantelpiece, papa, and--"

But here she paused, as if sorry she had said so much.

"And what?" he asked.

"I think I had better not say it, papa! I'm afraid I _ought_ not, for I
don't really _know_ anything, and it seems so wrong to suspect people."

"You need not express any suspicions," said her father; "I do not wish
you to do so; but I must insist upon having all the facts you can
furnish me with. Was Aunt Chloe in your room all the time you were
away?"

"No, sir; she told me she went down to the kitchen directly after I
left, and did not come up again until after I returned."

"Very well; do you know whether any one else entered the room during
your absence?"

"I do not _know_, papa, but I _think_ Arthur must have been in, because
when I came home I found him reading a book which I had left lying on
the mantel-piece," she answered in a low, reluctant tone.

"Ah, ha! that is just it! I see it all now," he exclaimed, with a
satisfied nod. "There, that will do, Elsie; go now and make haste down
to your dinner."

But Elsie lingered, and, in answer to a look of kind inquiry from her
father, said coaxingly, "Please, papa, don't be very angry with him. I
think he did not know how much I cared about my book."

"You are very forgiving, Elsie; but go, child, I shall not abuse him,"
Mr. Dinsmore answered, with an imperative gesture, and the little girl
hurried from the room.

It happened that just at this time the elder Mr. Dinsmore and his wife
were paying a visit to some friends in the city, and thus Elsie's papa
had been left head of the house for the time. Arthur, knowing this to
be the state of affairs, and that though his father was expected to
return that evening, his mother would be absent for some days, was
beginning to be a good deal fearful of the consequences of his
misconduct, and not without reason, for his brother's wrath was now
fully aroused, and he was determined that the boy should not on this
occasion escape the penalty of his misdeeds.

Arthur was already in the dining-room when Mr. Dinsmore came down.

"Arthur," said he, "I wish you to step into the library a moment; I
have something to say to you."

"I don't want to hear it," muttered the boy, with a dogged look, and
standing perfectly still.

"I dare say not, sir; but that makes no difference," replied his
brother. "Walk into the library at once."

Arthur returned a scowl of defiance, muttering almost under his breath,
"I'll do as I please about that;" but cowed by his brother's determined
look and manner, he slowly and reluctantly obeyed.

"Now, sir," said Mr. Dinsmore, when he had him fairly in the room, and
had closed the door behind them, "I wish to know how you came to meddle
with Elsie's copy-book."

"I didn't," was the angry rejoinder.

"Take care, sir; I know all about it," said Mr. Dinsmore, in a warning
tone; "it is useless for you to deny it. Yesterday, while Elsie was out
and Aunt Chloe in the kitchen, you went to her room, took the key of
her desk from the mantel-piece where she had left it, went to the
school-room and did the mischief, hoping to get her into trouble
thereby, and then relocking the desk and returning the key to its
proper place, thought you had escaped detection; and I was very near
giving my poor, innocent little girl the whipping you so richly
deserve."

Arthur looked up in astonishment.

"Who told you?" he asked; "nobody saw me;" then, catching himself, said
hastily, "I tell you I didn't do it. I don't know anything about it."

"Will you dare to tell me such a falsehood as that again?" exclaimed
Mr. Dinsmore, angrily, taking him by the collar and shaking him roughly.

"Let me alone now," whined the culprit. "I want my dinner, I say."

"You'll get no dinner to-day, I can tell you," replied his brother. "I
am going to lock you into your bedroom, and keep you there until your
father comes home; and then if _he_ doesn't give you the flogging you
deserve, _I_ will; for I intend you shall have your deserts for once in
your life. I know that all this is in revenge for Elsie's forced
testimony in the affair of the watch, and I gave you fair warning then
that I would see to it that any attempt to abuse my child should
receive its just reward."

He took the boy by the arm as he spoke, to lead him from the room.

At first Arthur seemed disposed to resist; but soon, seeing how useless
it was to contend against such odds, he resigned himself to his fate,
saying sullenly, "You wouldn't treat me this way if mamma was at home."

"She is not, however, as it happens, though I can tell you that even
_she_ could not save you now," replied his brother, as he opened the
bedroom door, and pushing him in, locked it upon him, and put the key
in his pocket.

Mr. Horace Dinsmore had almost unbounded influence over his father, who
was very proud of him; the old gentleman also utterly despised
everything mean and underhanded, and upon being made acquainted by
Horace with Arthur's misdemeanors he inflicted upon him as severe a
punishment as any one could have desired.




CHAPTER NINTH


   "Keep the Sabbath day to sanctify it, as the Lord thy God
    hath commanded thee."


                         "She is mine own;
    And I as rich in having such a jewel
    As twenty seas, if all their sand were pearl,
    The water nectar, and the rocks pure gold."
                    --SHAKESPEARE, _Two Gentlemen of Verona._


And now happy days had come to the little Elsie. Her father treated her
with the tenderest affection, and kept her with him almost constantly,
seeming scarcely willing to have her out of his sight for an hour. He
took her with him wherever he went in his rides and walks and visits to
the neighboring planters.

She was much admired for her beauty and sweetness of disposition, much
caressed and flattered, but, through it all, lost none of her native
modesty, but was ever the same meek, gentle little girl. She felt
grateful for all the kindness she received, and liked to visit with her
papa; but her happiest days were spent at home on those rare occasions
when they were free from visitors, and she could sit for hours on his
knee, or by his side, talking or reading to him, or working at her
embroidery, or knitting and listening while he read. He helped her with
all her studies, taught her something of botany and geology in their
walks, helped her to see and correct the faults of her drawings, sang
with her when she played, bought her quantities of new music, and
engaged the best masters to instruct her--in short, took a lively
interest in all her pursuits and pleasures, gave her every indulgence,
and lavished upon her the tenderest caresses. He was very proud of her
beauty, her sweetness, her intelligence, and talent; and nothing
pleased him better than to hear them spoken of by others in terms of
praise.

And Elsie was very happy; the soft eyes grew bright with happiness, and
the little face lost its pensive expression, and became as round, rosy
and merry as Enna's.

Miss Day went North, expecting to be absent several months, and Elsie's
papa took her traveling, spending some time at different
watering-places. It was her first journey since she had been old enough
to care for such things, and she enjoyed it exceedingly. They left home
in July, and did not return until September, so that the little girl
had time to rest and recruit, both mentally and physically, and was
ready to begin her studies again with zeal and energy; yet it was so
pleasant to be her papa's constant companion, and she had so enjoyed
her freedom from the restraints of the school-room, that she was not at
all sorry to learn, on their arrival at Roselands, that the governess
would still be absent for some weeks.

"How bright and happy the child looks!" was Adelaide's remark on the
day of their return, as, from the opposite side of the room, she
watched the speaking countenance of the little girl, who was giving
Enna and the boys an animated description of her journey.

"Yes," said Lora, "and how entirely she seems to have overcome her fear
of her father!" for at that instant Elsie suddenly left the little
group, and running to him, leaned confidingly on his knee, while
apparently urging some request, which he answered with a smile and a
nod of acquiescence; when she left the room, and presently returned
carrying a richly bound book of engravings.

Yes, Elsie had lost her fear of her father, and could now talk to him,
and tell him her feelings and wishes, as freely as ever Enna did; and
no wonder, for in all these weeks he had never given her one harsh word
or look; but indeed he had had no occasion to do so, for she was always
docile and obedient.

It was Sabbath afternoon--the first Sabbath after their return--and
Elsie was in her own room alone with the books she loved best--her
Bible, hymnbook, and "Pilgrim's Progress."

She had spent a very happy hour in self-examination, reading and
prayer, and was singing to herself in a low tone her favorite hymn,

    "I lay my sins on Jesus,"

while turning over the leaves of her Bible to find the story of Elijah,
which she had promised to read to Chloe that afternoon, when a child's
footsteps were heard coming down the hall, the handle of the door was
turned hastily, and then, as it refused to yield, Enna's voice called
out in a fretful, imperious tone, "Open this door, Elsie Dinsmore. I
want in, I say."

Elsie sighed, as she thought, "There is an end to my nice afternoon,"
but she rose at once, and quickly crossing the room, opened the door,
asking pleasantly, "What do you want, Enna?"

"I _told_ you I wanted to come _in_," replied Enna, saucily, "and now
you've got to tell me a story to amuse me; mamma says so, because you
know I've got a cold, and she won't let me go out."

"Well, Enna," said Elsie, patiently, "I am going to read a very
beautiful story to mammy, and you are quite welcome to sit here and
listen."

"I sha'n't have it read! I said you were to _tell_ it. I don't like to
hear reading," replied Enna in her imperious way, at the same time
taking quiet possession of Elsie's little rosewood rocking-chair--a
late present from her papa, and highly prized by the little girl on
that account--and beginning to scratch with her thumb nail upon the arm.

"Oh! don't scratch my pretty new chair, Enna!" Elsie entreated; "it is
papa's present, and I wouldn't have it spoiled for a great deal."

"I will; who cares for your old chair?" was the reply in a scornful
tone, as she gave another and harder dig with her nail. "You're a
little old maid--so particular with all your things--that's what mamma
says you are. Now tell me that story."

"I will tell you a story if you will stop scratching my chair, Enna,"
said Elsie, almost with tears in her eyes, "I will tell you about
Elijah on Mount Carmel or Beishazzar's feast, or the children in the
fiery furnace, or----"

"I sha'n't hear any of those! I don't want any of your old Bible
stories," interrupted Enna, insolently, "You must tell me that pretty
fairy tale Herbert Carrington is so fond of."

"No, Enna; I cannot tell you that _to-day_," replied Elsie, speaking
gently, but very firmly.

"I say you _shall!_" screamed Enna, springing to her feet. "I'll just
go and tell mamma, and she'll make you do it."

"Stay, Enna," said Elsie, catching her hand to detain her; "I will tell
you any story I know that is suitable for the Sabbath; but I cannot
tell the fairy tale to-day, because you know it would be wrong. I will
tell it to you to-morrow, though, if you will wait."

"You're a _bad_ girl, and I'll just tell mamma of you," exclaimed Enna,
passionately, jerking her hand away and darting from the room.

"Oh! if papa was only at home," sighed Elsie, sinking into her
rocking-chair, pale and trembling; but she knew that he had gone out
riding, and would probably not return for some time; he had invited her
to accompany him, but she had begged to be allowed to stay at home, and
he had let her have her wish.

As she feared, she was immediately summoned to Mrs. Dinsmore's presence.

"Elsie," said that lady, severely, "are you not ashamed of yourself, to
refuse Enna such a small favor especially when the poor child is not
well. I must say you are the most selfish, disobliging child I ever
saw."

"I offered to tell her a Bible story, or anything suitable for the
Sabbath day," replied Elsie, meekly, "but I cannot tell the fairy tale,
because it would be wrong."

"Nonsense! there's no harm at all in telling fairy tales to-day, any
more than any other day; that is just an excuse, Elsie," said Mrs.
Dinsmore, angrily.

"I don't want her old Bible stories. I won't have them. I want that
pretty fairy tale," sobbed Enna passionately; "_make_ her tell it,
mamma."

"Come, come, what is all this fuss about?" asked the elder Mr.
Dinsmore, coming in from an adjoining room.

"Nothing," said his wife, "except that Enna is not well enough to go
out, and wants a fairy story to pass away the time, which Elsie alone
is acquainted with, but is too lazy or too self-willed to relate."

He turned angrily to his little granddaughter.

"Ah! indeed, is that it? Well, there is an old saying. 'A bird that
_can_ sing, and _won't_ sing, must be _made_ to sing.'"

Elsie was opening her lips to speak, but Mrs. Dinsmore bade her be
silent, and then went on. "She pretends it is all on account of
conscientious scruples. 'It isn't fit for the Sabbath,' she says. Now
_I_ say it is a great piece of impertinence for a child of her years to
set up her opinion against yours and mine; and I know very well it is
nothing but an excuse, because she doesn't choose to be obliging."

"Of _course_ it is; nothing in the _world_ but an excuse," responded
Mr. Dinsmore, hotly.

Elsie's face flushed, and she answered a little indignantly,

"No, grandpa, indeed it is _not_ merely an excuse, but--"

"Do you _dare_ to contradict me, you impertinent little hussy?" cried
the old gentleman, interrupting her in the middle of her sentence; and
catching her by the arm, he shook her violently; then picking her up
and setting her down hard upon a chair, he said, "Now, miss, sit you
there until your father comes home, then we will see what _he_ thinks
of such impertinence; and if he doesn't give you the complete whipping
you deserve, I miss my guess."

"Please, grandpa, I--"

"Hold your tongue! don't dare to speak another word until your father
comes home," said he, threateningly. "If you don't choose to say what
you're wanted to, you shall not talk at all."

Then, going to the door, he called a servant and bade him tell "Mr.
Horace," as soon as he returned, that he wished to see him.

For the next half-hour--and a very long one it seemed to her--Elsie sat
there wishing for, and yet dreading her father's coming. Would he
inflict upon her the punishment which her grandfather evidently wished
her to receive, without pausing to inquire into the merits of the case?
or would he listen patiently to _her_ story? And even if he did, might
he not still think her deserving of punishment? She could not answer
these questions to her own satisfaction. A few months ago she would
have been certain of a very severe chastisement, and even now she
trembled with fear; for though she knew beyond a doubt that he loved
her dearly, she knew also that he was a strict and severe
disciplinarian, and never excused her faults.

At last her ear caught the sound of his step in the hall, and her heart
beat fast and faster as it drew nearer, until he entered, and
addressing his father, asked, "Did you wish to see me, sir?"

"Yes, Horace, I want you to attend to this girl," replied the old
gentleman, with a motion of the head toward Elsie. "She has been very
impertinent to me."

"What! _Elsie_ impertinent! is it possible? I certainly expected better
things of her."

His tone expressed great surprise, and turning to his little daughter,
he regarded her with a grave, sad look that brought the tears to her
eyes; dearly as she loved him, it seemed almost harder to bear than the
old expression of stern severity.

"It is hard to believe," he said, "that my little Elsie would be guilty
of such conduct; but if she has been, of course she must be punished,
for I cannot allow anything of the kind. Go. Elsie, to my dressing-room
and remain there until I come to you."

"Papa--" she began, bursting into tears.

"Hush!" he said, with something of the old sternness; "not a word; but
obey me instantly."

Then, as Elsie went sobbing from the room, he seated himself, and
turning to his father, said, "Now, sir, if you please, I should like to
hear the whole story; precisely what Elsie has done and said, and what
was the provocation; for _that_ must also be taken into the account, in
order that I may be able to do her justice."

"If you do her _justice_, you will whip her well," remarked his father
in a tone of asperity.

Horace colored violently, for nothing aroused his ire sooner than any
interference between him and his child; but controlling himself, he
replied quite calmly, "If I find her deserving of punishment, I will
not spare her; but I should be sorry indeed to punish her unjustly.
Will you be so good as to tell me what she has done?"

Mr. Dinsmore referred him to his wife for the commencement of the
trouble, and she made out as bad a case against Elsie as possible; but
even then there seemed to her father to be very little to condemn; and
when Mrs. Dinsmore was obliged to acknowledge that it was Elsie's
refusal to humor Enna in her desire for a particular story which Elsie
thought it not best to relate on the Sabbath, he bit his lip with
vexation, and told her in a haughty tone, that though he did not
approve of Elsie's strict notions regarding such matters, yet he wished
her to understand that _his_ daughter was not to be made a slave to
Enna's whims. If she _chose_ to tell her a story, or to do anything
else for her amusement, he had no objection, but she was never to be
_forced_ to do it against her inclination, and Enna must understand
that it was done as a favor, and not at all as her right.

"You are right enough there, Horace," remarked his father, "but that
does not excuse Elsie for her impertinence to me. In the first place, I
must say I agree with my wife in thinking it quite a piece of
impertinence for a child of her years to set up her opinion against
mine; and besides, she contradicted me flatly."

He then went on to repeat what he had said, and Elsie's denial of the
charge, using her exact words, but quite a different tone, and
suppressing the fact that he had interrupted her before she had
finished her sentence.

Elsie's tone, though slightly indignant, had still been respectful, but
from her grandfather's rehearsal of the scene her father received the
impression that she had been exceedingly saucy, and he left the room
with the intention of giving her almost as severe a punishment as her
grandfather would have prescribed.

On the way up to his room, however, his anger had a little time to
cool, and it occurred to him that it would be no more than just to hear
_her_ side of the story ere he condemned her.

Elsie was seated on a couch at the far side of the room, and as he
entered she turned on him a tearful, pleading look, that went straight
to his heart.

His face was grave and sad, but there was very little sternness in it,
as he sat down and took her in his arms.

For a moment he held her without speaking, while she lifted her eyes
timidly to his face. Then he said, as he gently stroked the hair back
from her forehead, "I am very sorry, _very sorry indeed_, to hear so
bad an account of my little daughter. I am afraid I shall have to
punish her, and I don't like to do it."

She answered not a word, but burst into tears, and hiding her face on
his breast, sobbed aloud.

"I will not condemn you unheard, Elsie," he said after a moment's
pause; "tell me how you came to be so impertinent to your grandfather."

"I did not mean to be saucy, papa, indeed I did not," she sobbed.

"Stop crying then, daughter," he said kindly, "and tell me all about
it. I know there was some trouble between you and Enna, and I want you
to tell me all that occurred, and every word spoken by either of you,
as well as all that passed between Mrs. Dinsmore, your grandfather, and
yourself. I am very glad that I can trust my little girl to speak the
truth. I am quite sure she would not tell a falsehood even to save
herself from punishment," he added tenderly.

"Thank you, dear papa, for saying that," said Elsie, raising her head
and almost smiling through her tears. "I will _try_ to tell it just as
it happened."

She then told her story simply and truthfully, repeating, as he bade
her, every word that had passed between Enna and herself, and between
her and her grandparents. Her words to her grandfather sounded very
different, repeated in her quiet, respectful tones; and when she added
that if he would have allowed her, she was going on to explain that it
was not any unwillingness to oblige Enna, but the fear of doing wrong,
that led her to refuse her request, her father thought that after all
she deserved very little blame.

"Do you think I was very saucy, papa?" she asked anxiously, when she
had finished her story.

"So much depends upon the tone, Elsie," he said, "that I can hardly
tell; if you used the same tone in speaking to your grandpa that you
did in repeating your words to me just now, I don't think it was _very_
impertinent; though the words themselves were not as respectful as they
ought to have been. You must always treat my father quite as
respectfully as you do me; and I think with him, too, that there is
something quite impertinent in a little girl like you setting up her
opinion against that of her elders. You must never try it with me, my
daughter."

Elsie hung down her head in silence for a moment, then asked in a
tremulous tone, "Are you going to punish me, papa?"

"Yes," he said, "but first I am going to take you down-stairs and make
you beg your grandfather's pardon. I see you don't want to do it," he
added, looking keenly into her face, "but you _must_, and I hope I
shall not be obliged to _enforce_ obedience to my commands."

"I will do whatever you bid me, papa," she sobbed, "but I did not mean
to be saucy. Please, papa, tell me what to say."

"You must say, Grandpa, I did not intend to be impertinent to you, and
I am very sorry for whatever may have seemed saucy in my words or
tones; will you please to forgive me, and I will try always to be
perfectly respectful in future. You can say all that with truth, I
think?"

"Yes, papa, I _am_ sorry, and I _do_ intend to be respectful to grandpa
always," she answered, brushing away her tears, and putting her hand in
his.

He then led her into her grandfather's presence, saying: "Elsie has
come to beg your pardon, sir."

"That is as it should be," replied the old gentleman, glancing
triumphantly at his wife; "I told her you would not uphold her in any
such impertinence."

"No," said his son, with some displeasure in his tone; "I will neither
uphold her in wrongdoing, nor suffer her to be imposed upon. Speak, my
daughter, and say what I bade you."

Elsie sobbed out the required words.

"Yes, I must forgive you, of course," replied her grandfather, coldly,
"but I hope your father is not going to let you off without proper
punishment."

"I will attend to that; I certainly intend to punish her _as she
deserves_" said his son, laying a marked emphasis upon the concluding
words of his sentence.

Elsie wholly misunderstood him, and so trembled with fear as he led her
from the room, that she could scarcely walk; seeing which, he took her
in his arms and carried her up-stairs, she sobbing on his shoulder.

He did not speak until he had locked the door, carried her across the
room, and seated himself upon the couch again, with her upon his knee.

Then he said, in a soothing tone, as he wiped away her tears and kissed
her kindly, "You need not tremble so, my daughter; I am not going to be
severe with you."

She looked up in glad surprise.

"I said I would punish you as you _deserve_," he said, with a smile,
"and I intend to keep you shut up here with me until bed-time, I shall
not allow you to go down-stairs to tea, and besides, I am going to give
you a long lesson to learn, which I shall require you to recite to me
quite perfectly before you can go to bed."

Elsie grew frightened again at the mention of the lesson, for she
feared it might be something which she could not conscientiously study
on the Sabbath; but all her fear and trouble vanished as she saw her
father take up a Bible that lay on the table, and turn over the leaves
as though selecting a passage.

Presently he put it into her hands, and pointing to the thirteenth and
fourteenth chapters of John's Gospel, bade her carry the book to a low
seat by the window, and sit there until she had learned them perfectly.

"O papa! what a nice lesson!" she exclaimed, looking up delightedly
into his face; "but it won't be any punishment, because I love these
chapters dearly, and have read them so often that I almost know every
word already."

"Hush, hush!" he said, pretending to be very stern; "don't tell me that
my punishments are _no_ punishments, I don't allow you to talk so; just
take the book and learn what I bid you; and if you know those two
already, you may learn the next."

Elsie laughed, kissed his hand, and tripped away to her window, while
he threw himself down on the couch and took up a newspaper, more as a
screen to his face, however, than for the purpose of reading; for he
lay there closely watching his little daughter, as she sat in the rich
glow of the sunset, with her sweet, grave little face bending over the
holy book.

"The darling!" he murmured to himself; "she is lovely as an angel, and
she is _mine_, mine only, mine own precious one; and loves me with her
whole soul. Ah! how can I ever find it in my heart to be stern to her?
Ah! if _I_ were but _half_ as good and pure as she is, I should be a
better man than I am." And he heaved a deep sigh.

Half an hour had passed, and still Elsie bent over her book. The
tea-bell rang, and Mr. Dinsmore started up, and crossing the room, bent
down and stroked her hair.

"Do you know it, darling?" he asked.

"Almost, papa," and she looked up into his face with a bright, sweet
smile, full of affection.

With a sudden impulse he caught her in his arms, and kissing her again
and again, said with emotion, "Elsie, my darling, I love you _too_
well; I could never bear to lose you."

"You must love Jesus better, my own precious papa," she replied,
clasping her little arms around his neck, and returning his caresses.

He held her a moment, and then putting her down, said, "I shall send
you up some supper, and I want you to eat it; don't behave as you did
about the bread and water once, a good while ago."

"Will it be bread and water this time, papa?" she asked, with a smile.

"You will see," he said, laughingly, and quitted the room.

Elsie turned to her book again, but in a few moments was interrupted by
the entrance of a servant carrying on a silver waiter a plate of hot,
buttered muffins, a cup of jelly, another of hot coffee, and a piece of
broiled chicken. Elsie was all astonishment.

"Why, Pomp," she asked, "did papa send it?"

"Yes, Miss Elsie, 'deed he did," replied the servant, with a grin of
satisfaction, as he set down his burden. "I reckon you been berry nice
gal dis day; or else Marster Horace tink you little bit sick."

"Papa is very good; and I am much obliged to you too, Pomp," said the
little girl, laying aside her book, and seating herself before the
waiter.

"Jes ring de bell, Miss Elsie, ef you want more, and dis chile fotch
'em up; Marster Horace say so hisself." And the grinning negro bowed
himself out, chuckling with delight, for Elsie had always been a great
favorite with him.

"Dear papa," Elsie said, when he came in again and smilingly asked if
she had eaten her prison fare, "what a good supper you sent me! But I
thought you didn't allow me such things!"

"Don't you know," said he playfully, laying his hand upon her head,
"that I am absolute monarch of this small kingdom, and you are not to
question my doings or decrees?"

Then in a more serious tone, "No, daughter, I do not allow it as a
regular thing, because I do not think it for your good; but for once, I
thought it would not hurt you. I know you are not one to presume upon
favors, and I wanted to indulge you a little, because I fear my little
girl has been made to suffer perhaps more than she quite deserved this
afternoon."

His voice had a very tender tone as he uttered the concluding words,
and stooping, he pressed his lips to her forehead.

"Don't think, though," he added the next moment, "that I am excusing
you for impertinence, not at all; but it was what you have had to
suffer from Enna's insolence. I shall put a stop to that, for I will
not have it."

"I don't mind it much, papa," said Elsie gently, "I am quite used to
it, for Enna has always treated me so."

"And why did _I_ never hear of it before?" he asked, half angrily. "It
is abominable! not to be endured!" he exclaimed, "and I shall see that
Miss Enna is made to understand that _my_ daughter is fully her equal
in every respect, and always to be treated as such."

He paused; but, Elsie, half frightened at his vehemence, made no reply;
and he went on: "I have no  doubt your grandfather and his wife would
have been better pleased had I forced you to yield to Enna's whim; but
I had no idea of such a thing; you shall use your own pleasure whenever
she is concerned; but: if _I_ had bidden you to  tell her that story it
would have been a very different matter; you need  never set up your
will, or your opinion of right and wrong, against mine, Elsie, for I
shall not allow it. I don't altogether like some of those strict
notions you have got into your head, and I give you fair warning, that
should  they ever come into collision with _my_ wishes and commands,
they will have to be given up. But don't look so alarmed, daughter; I
hope it may never happen; and we will say no more about it to-night,"
he added, kindly, for she had grown very pale and trembled visibly.

"O papa, dear papa! don't ever bid me do anything wrong; it would break
my heart," she said, laying her head on his shoulder as he sat down and
drew her to his side.

"I never intend to bid you do wrong, but, on the contrary, wish you
always to do right. But then, daughter, _I_ must be the judge of what
is wrong or right for you; you must remember that you are only a very
little girl, and not yet capable of judging for yourself, and all you
have to do is to obey your father without murmuring or hesitation, and
then there will be no trouble."

His tone, though mild, and not unkind, was very firm and decided, and
Elsie's heart sank; she seemed to feel herself in the shadow of some
great trouble laid up in store for her in the future. But she strove,
and ere long with success, to banish the foreboding of evil which
oppressed her, and give herself up to the enjoyment of present
blessings. Her father loved her dearly--she knew that--and he was not
_now_ requiring her to do aught against her conscience, and perhaps he
never might; he had said so himself, and God could incline his heart to
respect her scruples; or if, in His infinite wisdom, He saw that the
dreaded trial was needed, He would give her strength to bear it; for
had He not promised, "As thy day, so shall thy strength be"?

Her father's arm was around her, and she had been standing silently,
with her face hidden on his shoulder, while these thoughts were passing
through her mind, and the little heart going up in prayer to God for
him and for herself.

"What is my little girl thinking of?" he asked presently.

"A good many things, papa," she said, raising her face, now quite
peaceful and happy again. "I was thinking of what you had just been
saying to me, and that I am so glad I know that you love me dearly; and
I was asking God to help us both to do His will, and that I might
always be able to do what you bid me, without disobeying Him," she
added simply; and then asked, "May I say my lesson now, papa? I think I
know it quite perfectly."

"Yes," he said, in an absent way; "bring me the book."

Elsie brought it, and putting it into his hands, drew up a stool and
sat down at his feet, resting her arm on his knee, and looking up into
his face; then in her sweet, low voice, she repeated slowly and
feelingly, with true and beautiful emphasis, the chapters he had given
her to learn; that most touching description of the Last Supper, and
our Saviour's farewell address to His sorrowing disciples.

"Ah! papa, is it not beautiful?" she exclaimed, laying her head upon
his knee, while the tears trembled in her eyes. "Is not that a sweet
verse, 'Having loved His own which were in the world, He loved them
unto the end'? It seems so strange that He could be so thoughtful for
them, so kind and loving, when all the time He knew what a dreadful
death He was just going to die; and knew besides that they were all
going to run away and leave Him alone with His cruel enemies. Oh! it is
so sweet to know that Jesus is so loving, and that He loves me, and
will always love me, even to the end, _forever_."

"How do you know that, Elsie?" he asked.

"I know that He loves me, papa, because I love Him, and He has said, 'I
love them that love me;' and I know that He will love me always,
because He has said, 'I have loved thee with an _everlasting_ love,'
and in another place, 'I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee.'"

"But do you think you are good enough, daughter, for Jesus to love you?"

"Ah! papa, I know I am not at all good. I have a very wicked heart, and
often my thoughts and feelings are all wrong, and Jesus knows all about
it, but it does not keep Him from loving me, for you know it was
_sinners_ He died to save. Ah! papa, how _good_ and _kind_ He was! Who
could help loving Him? I used to feel _so_ lonely and sad sometimes,
papa, that I think my heart would have broken quite, and I should have
died, if I had not had Jesus to love me."

"When were you so sad and lonely, darling?" he asked in a moved tone,
as he laid his hand gently on her head, and stroked her hair
caressingly.

"Sometimes when you were away, papa, and I had never seen you; but then
I used to think of you, and my heart would long and _ache_ so to see
you, and hear you call me daughter, and to lay my head against your
breast and feel your arms folding me close to your heart, as you do so
often now."

She paused a moment, and struggled hard to keep down the rising sobs,
as she added, "But when you came, papa, and I saw you did not love me,
oh! papa, that was the worst. I thought I could never, _never_ bear it.
I thought my heart would break, and I wanted to die and go to Jesus,
and to mamma."

The little frame shook with sobs.

"My poor darling! my poor little pet!" he said, taking her in his arms
again, and caressing her with the greatest tenderness, "it was very
hard, very cruel. I don't know how I could steel my heart so against my
own little child; but I had been very much prejudiced, and led to
suppose that you looked upon me with fear and dislike, as a hated
tyrant."

Elsie lifted her eyes to his face with a look of extreme surprise.

"O papa!" she exclaimed, "how _could_ you think that? I have always
loved you, ever since I can remember."

When Elsie went to her room that evening she thought very seriously of
all that had occurred during the afternoon, and all that her papa had
said to her; and to her usual petitions was added a very fervent one
that he might never bid her break any command of God; or if he did,
that she might have strength given her according to her day.

A shadow had fallen on her pathway, faint, but perceptible; a light,
fleecy cloud obscured the brightness of her sun; yet it was not for
some weeks that even the most distant mutterings of the coming storm
could be heard.




CHAPTER TENTH


    "If thou turn away thy foot from the Sabbath, from doing
    thy pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a Delight,
    the Holy of the Lord, Honorable, and shalt honor him, not
    doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor
    speaking thine own words."


    "Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto
    you, more than unto God, judge ye."



Quite a number of guests had dined at Roselands. They were nearly all
gentlemen, and were now collected in the drawing-room, laughing,
jesting, talking politics, and conversing with each other and the
ladies upon various worldly topics, apparently quite forgetful that it
was the Lord's day, which He has commanded to be kept holy in thought
and word, as well as deed.

"May I ask what you are in search of, Mr. Eversham?" inquired Adelaide,
as she noticed one of the guests glance around the room with a rather
disappointed air.

"Yes, Miss Adelaide; I was looking for little Miss Elsie. Travilla has
given me so very glowing an account of her precocious musical talent,
that I have conceived a great desire to hear her play and sing."

"Do you hear that, Horace?" asked Adelaide, turning to her brother.

"Yes, and I shall be most happy to gratify you, Eversham," replied the
young father, with a proud smile.

He crossed the room to summon a servant, but as he placed his hand upon
the bell-rope, Mrs. Dinsmore arrested his movement.

"Stay, Horace," she said; "you had better not send for her."

"May I be permitted to ask _why_, madam?" he inquired in a tone of
mingled surprise and annoyance.

"Because she will not sing," answered the lady, coolly.

"Pardon me, madam, but I think she will, if _I bid_ her to do it," he
said with flashing eyes.

"No, she will not," persisted Mrs. Dinsmore, in the same cold, quiet
tone; "she will tell you she is wiser than her father, and that it
would be a sin to obey him in this. Believe me, she will most assuredly
defy your authority; so you had better take my advice and let her
alone--thus sparing yourself the mortification of exhibiting before
your guests your inability to govern your child."

Mr. Dinsmore bit his lip with vexation.

"Thank you," he said, haughtily, "but I prefer convincing you that that
inability lies wholly in your own imagination; and I am quite at a loss
to understand upon what you found your opinion, as Elsie has never yet
made the very slightest resistance to my authority."

He had given the bell-rope a vigorous pull while speaking, and a
servant now appearing in answer to the summons, he sent him with a
message to Elsie, requiring her presence in the drawing-room.

Then turning away from his step-mother, who looked after him with a
gleam of triumph in her eye, he joined the group of gentlemen already
gathered about the piano, where Adelaide had just taken her seat and
begun a brilliant overture.

Yet, outwardly calm and self-satisfied as his demeanor may have been,
Horace Dinsmore was even now regretting the step he had just taken; for
remembering Elsie's conscientious scruples regarding the observance of
the Sabbath--which he had for the moment forgotten--he foresaw that
there would be a struggle, probably a severe one; and though, having
always found her docile and yielding, he felt no doubt of the final
result, he would willingly have avoided the contest, could he have done
so without a sacrifice of pride; but, as he said to himself, with a
slight sigh, he had now gone too far to retreat; and then he had all
along felt that this struggle must come _some_ time, and perhaps it was
as well now as at any other.

Elsie was alone in her own room, spending the Sabbath afternoon in her
usual manner, when the servant came to say that her papa wished to see
her in the drawing-room. The little girl was a good deal alarmed at the
summons, for the thought instantly flashed upon her, "He is going to
bid me play and sing, or do something else which it is not right to do
on the Sabbath day."

But remembering that he never had done so, she hoped he might not now;
yet ere she obeyed the call she knelt down for a moment, and prayed
earnestly for strength to do right, however difficult it might be.

"Come here, daughter," her father said as she entered the room. He
spoke in his usual pleasant, affectionate tone, yet Elsie started,
trembled, and turned pale; for catching sight of the group at the
piano, and her Aunt Adelaide just vacating the music-stool, she at once
perceived what was in store for her.

"Here, Elsie," said her father, selecting a song which she had learned
during their absence, and sang remarkably well, "I wish you to sing
this for my friends; they are anxious to hear it."

"Will not to-morrow do, papa?" she asked in a low, tremulous tone.

Mrs. Dinsmore, who had drawn near to listen, now looked at Horace with
a meaning smile, which he affected not to see.

"Certainly not, Elsie," he said; "we want it now. You know it quite
well enough without any more practice."

"I did not want to wait for _that_ reason, papa," she replied in the
same low, trembling tones, "but you know this is the holy Sabbath day."

"Well, my daughter, and what of that? _I_ consider this song perfectly
proper to be sung to-day, and that ought to satisfy you that you will
not be doing wrong to sing it; remember what I said to you some weeks
ago; and now sit down and sing it at once, without any more ado."

"O papa! I _cannot_ sing it to-day; _please_ let me wait until
to-morrow."

"Elsie," he said in his sternest tones, "sit down to the piano
instantly, and do as I bid you, and let me hear no more of this
nonsense."

She sat down, but raising her pleading eyes, brimful of tears to his
face, she repeated her refusal. "Dear papa, I _cannot_ sing it to-day.
I _cannot_ break the Sabbath."

"Elsie, you _must_ sing it," said he, placing the music before her. "I
have told you that it will not be breaking the Sabbath, and that is
sufficient; you must let me judge for you in these matters."

"Let her wait until to-morrow, Dinsmore; tomorrow will suit us quite as
well," urged several of the gentlemen, while Adelaide good-naturedly
said, "Let me play it, Horace; I have no such scruples, and presume I
can do it nearly as well as Elsie."

"No," he replied, "when I give my child a command, it is to be obeyed;
I have _said_ she should play it, and play it she _must_; she is not to
suppose that she may set up her opinion of right and wrong against
mine."

Elsie sat with her little hands folded in her lap, the tears streaming
from her downcast eyes over her pale cheeks. She was trembling, but
though there was no stubbornness in her countenance, the expression
meek and humble, she made no movement toward obeying her father's order.

There was a moment of silent waiting; then he said in his severest
tone, "Elsie, you shall sit there till you obey me, though it should be
until to-morrow morning."

"Yes, papa," she replied in a scarcely audible voice, and they all
turned away and left her.

"You see now that you had better have taken my advice, Horace,"
remarked Mrs. Dinsmore, in a triumphant aside; "I knew very well how it
would end."

"Excuse me," said he, "but it has _not_ ended; and ere it does, I think
she will learn that she has a stronger will than her own to deal with."

Elsie's position was a most uncomfortable one; her seat high and
uneasy, and seeming to grow more and more so as the weary moments
passed slowly away. No one came near her or seemed to notice her, yet
she could hear them conversing in other parts of the room, and knew
that they were sometimes looking at her, and, timid and bashful as she
was, it seemed hard to bear. Then, too, her little heart was very sad
as she thought of her father's displeasure, and feared that he would
withdraw from her the affection which had been for the last few months
the very sunshine of her life. Besides all this, the excitement of her
feelings, and the close and sultry air--for it was a very warm day--had
brought on a nervous headache. She leaned forward and rested her head
against the instrument, feeling in momentary danger of falling from her
seat.

Thus two long hours had passed when Mr. Travilla came to her side, and
said in a compassionate tone, "I am really very sorry for you, my
little friend; but I advise you to submit to your papa. I see you are
getting very weary sitting there, and I warn you not to hope to conquer
him. I have known him for years, and a more determined person I never
saw. Had you not better sing the song? it will not take five minutes,
and then your trouble will be all over."

Elsie raised her head, and answered gently, "Thank you for your
sympathy, Mr. Travilla, you are very kind; but I could not do it,
because Jesus says, 'He that loveth father or mother more than me, is
not worthy of me;' and I cannot disobey Him, even to please my own dear
papa."

"But, Miss Elsie, why do you think it would be disobeying Him? Is there
any verse in the Bible which says you must not sing songs on Sunday?"

"Mr. Travilla, it says the Sabbath is to be kept holy unto the Lord;
that we are not to think our own thoughts, nor speak our own words, nor
do our own actions; but all the day must be spent in studying God's
word, or worshipping and praising Him; and there is no praise in that
song; not one word about God or heaven."

"That is very true, Elsie, but still it is such a _very little_ thing,
that I cannot think there would be much harm in it, or that God would
be very angry with you for doing it."

"O Mr. Travilla!" she said, looking up at him in great surprise,
"surely you know that there is no such thing as a _little sin_; and
don't you remember about the man who picked up sticks on the Sabbath
day?"

"No; what was it?"

"God commanded that he should be stoned to death, and it was done.
Would you not have thought _that_ a very little thing, Mr. Travilla?"

"Yes, I believe I should," said he, turning away with a very grave face.

"Dinsmore," he said, going up to his friend; "I am sure that child is
conscientious; had you not better give up to her in this instance?"

"_Never_, Travilla," he answered, with stern decision. "This is the
first time she has rebelled against my authority, and if I let her
conquer now, she will think she is always to have her own way. No; cost
what it may, I _must_ subdue her; she will have to learn that my will
is law."

"Right, Horace," said the elder Mr. Dinsmore, approvingly, "let her
understand from the first that you are to be master; it is always the
best plan."

"Excuse me, Dinsmore," said Travilla; "but I must say that I think a
parent has no right to coerce a child into doing violence to its
conscience."

"Nonsense!" replied his friend, a little angrily. "Elsie is entirely
too young to set up her opinion against mine; she must allow me to
judge for her in these matters for some years to come."

Eversham, who had been casting uneasy glances at Elsie all the
afternoon, now drawing his chair near to Adelaide, said to her in an
undertone, "Miss Adelaide, I am deeply sorry for the mischief I have
unwittingly caused, and if you can tell me how to repair it you will
lay me under lasting obligations."

Adelaide shook her head. "There is no moving Horace when he has once
set his foot down," she said; "and as to Elsie, I doubt whether any
power on earth can make her do what she considers wrong."

"Poor little thing!" said Eversham, sighing; "where in the world did
she get such odd notions?"

"Partly from a pious Scotch woman, who had a good deal to do with her
in her infancy, and partly from studying the Bible, I believe. She is
always at it."

"Indeed!" and he relapsed into thoughtful silence.

Another hour passed slowly away, and then the tea-bell rang.

"Elsie," asked her father, coming to her side, "are you ready to obey
me now? if so, we will wait a moment to hear the song, and then you can
go to your tea with us."

"Dear papa, I cannot break the Sabbath," she replied, in a low, gentle
tone, without lifting her head.

"Very well then, I cannot break my word; you must sit there until you
will submit; and until then you must fast. You are not only making
yourself miserable by your disobedience and obstinacy, Elsie, but are
mortifying and grieving _me_ very much," he added in a subdued tone,
that sent a sharp pang to the loving little heart, and caused some very
bitter tears to fall, as he turned away and left her.

The evening passed wearily away to the little girl; the drawing-room
was but dimly lighted, for the company had all deserted it to wander
about the grounds, or sit in the portico enjoying the moonlight and the
pleasant evening breeze, and the air indoors seemed insupportably close
and sultry. At times Elsie could scarcely breathe, and she longed
intensely to get out into the open air; every moment her seat grew more
uncomfortable and the pain in her head more severe: her thoughts began
to wander, she forgot where she was, everything became confused, and at
length she lost all consciousness.

Several gentlemen, among whom were Mr. Horace Dinsmore and Mr.
Travilla, were conversing together on the portico, when they were
suddenly startled by a sound as of something falling.

Travilla, who was nearest the door, rushed into the drawing-room,
followed by the others.

"A light! quick, quick, a light!" he cried, raising Elsie's insensible
form in his arms; "the child has fainted."

One of the others, instantly snatching a lamp from a distant table,
brought it near, and the increased light showed Elsie's little face,
ghastly as that of a corpse, while a stream of blood was flowing from a
wound in the temple, made by striking against some sharp corner of the
furniture as she fell.

She was a pitiable sight indeed, with her fair face, her curls, and her
white dress all dabbled in blood.

"Dinsmore, you're a brute!" exclaimed Travilla indignantly, as he
placed her gently on a sofa.

Horace made no reply, but, with a face almost as pale as her own, bent
over his little daughter in speechless alarm, while one of the guests,
who happened to be a physician, hastily dressed the wound, and then
applied restoratives.

It was some time ere consciousness returned, and the father trembled
with the agonizing fear that the gentle spirit had taken its flight.

But at length the soft eyes unclosed, and gazing with a troubled look
into his face, bent so anxiously over her, she asked, "Dear papa, are
you angry with me?"

"No, darling," he replied in tones made tremulous with emotion, "not at
all."

"What was it?" she asked in a bewildered way; "what did I do? what has
happened?"

"Never mind, daughter," he said, "you have been ill; but you are better
now, so don't think any more about it."

"She had better be put to bed at once," said the physician.

"There is blood on my dress," cried Elsie, in a startled tone; "where
did it come from?"

"You fell and hurt your head," replied her father, raising her gently
in his arms; "but don't talk any more now."

"Oh! I remember," she moaned, an expression of keen distress coming
over her face; "papa--"

"Hush! hush! not a word more; we will let the past go," he said,
kissing her lips. "I shall carry you to your room now, and see you put
to bed."

He held her on his knee, her head resting on his shoulder, while Chloe
prepared her for rest.

"Are you hungry, daughter?" he asked.

"No, papa; I only want to go to sleep."

"There, Aunt Chloe, that will do," he said, as the old nurse tied on
the child's night-cap; and raising her again in his arms, he carried
her to the bed and was about to place her on it.

"Oh papa! my prayers first, you know," she cried eagerly.

"Never mind them to-night," said he, "you are not able."

"Please let me, dear papa," she pleaded; "I cannot go to sleep without."

Yielding to her entreaties, he placed her on her knees, and stood
beside her, listening to her murmured petitions, in which he more than
once heard his own name coupled with a request that he might be made to
love Jesus.

When she had finished, he again raised her in his arms, kissed her
tenderly several times, and then laid her carefully on the bed, saying,
as he did so, "Why did you ask, Elsie, that I might love Jesus?"

"Because, papa, I do so want you to love Him; it would make you so
happy; and besides, you cannot go to heaven without it; the Bible says
so."

"Does it? and what makes you think I don't love Him?"

"Dear papa, please don't be angry," she pleaded, tearfully, "but you
know Jesus says, 'He that keepeth my commandments, he it is that loveth
me.'"

He stooped over her. "Good night, daughter," he said.

"Dear, _dear_ papa," she cried, throwing her arm round his neck, and
drawing down his face close to hers, "I do love you so very, _very_
much!"

"Better than anybody else?" he asked

"No, papa, I love Jesus best; you next."

He kissed her again, and with a half sigh turned away and left the
room. He was not entirely pleased; not quite willing that she should
love even her Saviour better than himself.

Elsie was very weary, and was soon asleep. She waked the next morning
feeling nearly as well as usual, and after she had had her bath and
been dressed by Chloe's careful hands, the curls being arranged to
conceal the plaster that covered the wound on her temple, there was
nothing in her appearance, except a slight paleness, to remind her
friends of the last night's accident.

She was sitting reading her morning chapter when her father came in,
and taking a seat by her side, lifted her to his knee, saying, as he
caressed her tenderly, "My little daughter is looking pretty well this
morning; how does she feel?"

"Quite well, thank you, papa," she replied, looking up into his face
with a sweet, loving smile.

He raised the curls to look at the wounded temple; then, as he dropped
them again, he said, with a shudder, "Elsie, do you know that you were
very near being killed last night?"

"No, papa, was I?" she asked with an awe-struck countenance.

"Yes, the doctor says if that wound had been made half an inch nearer
your eye--I should have been childless."

His voice trembled almost too much for utterance as he finished his
sentence, and he strained her to his heart with a deep sigh of
thankfulness for her escape.

Elsie was very quiet for some moments, and the little face was almost
sad in its deep thoughtfulness.

"What are you thinking of, darling?" he asked.

She raised her eyes to his face and he saw that they were brimful of
tears.

"O papa!" she said, dropping her head on his breast while the bright
drops fell like rain down her cheeks, "would you have been so very
sorry?"

"Sorry, darling! do you not know that you are more precious to me than
all my wealth, all my friends and relatives put together? Yes, I would
rather part with everything else than lose this one little girl," he
said, kissing her again and again.

"Dear, _dear_ papa! how glad I am that you love me so much!" she
replied; and then relapsed into silence.

He watched her changing countenance for some time, then asked, "What is
it, darling?"

"I was just thinking," she said, "whether I was ready to go to heaven,
and I believe I was; for I know that I love Jesus; and then I was
thinking how glad mamma would have been to see me; don't you think she
would, papa?"

"I can't spare you to her yet," he replied with emotion, "and I think
she loves me too well to wish it."

As Miss Day had not yet returned, Elsie's time was still pretty much at
her own disposal, excepting when her papa gave her something to do; so,
after breakfast, finding that he was engaged with some one in the
library, she took her Bible, and seeking out a shady retreat in the
garden, sat down to read.

The Bible was ever the book of books to her, and this morning the
solemn, tender feelings naturally caused by the discovery of her recent
narrow escape from sudden death made it even more than usually touching
and beautiful in her eyes. She had been alone in the arbor for some
time, when, hearing a step at her side, she looked up, showing a face
all wet with tears.

It was Mr. Travilla who stood beside her.

"In tears, little Elsie! Pray, what may the book be that effects you
so?" he asked, sitting down by her side and taking it from her hand.
"The Bible, I declare!" he exclaimed in surprise. "What can there be in
it that you find so affecting?"

"O Mr. Travilla!" said the little girl, "does it not make your heart
ache to read how the Jews abused our dear, dear Saviour? and then to
think that it was all because of our sins," she sobbed.

He looked half distressed, half puzzled; it seemed a new idea to him.

"Really, my little Elsie," he said, "you are quite original in your
ideas, I suppose I _ought_ to feel unhappy about these things, but
indeed the truth is, I have never thought much about them."

"Then you don't love Jesus," she answered, mournfully. "Ah! Mr.
Travilla, how sorry I am."

"Why, Elsie, what difference can it make to you whether I love Him or
not?"

"Because, Mr. Travilla, the Bible says, 'If any man love not the Lord
Jesus Christ, let him be anathema, maranatha,' accursed from God. Oh!
sir, think how dreadful! You cannot be _saved_ unless you love Jesus,
and believe on Him. 'Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt
be saved.' That is what God says in his word."

She spoke with deep solemnity, the tears trembling in her eyes. He was
touched, but for a while sat perfectly silent.

Then he said, with an effort to speak lightly. "Ah, well, my little
friend, I certainly intend to repent and believe before I die, but
there is time enough yet."

"Mr. Travilla," she said, laying her hand on his arm and looking
earnestly into his face, "how do you know that there is time enough
yet? _don't_ put it off, I beg of you."

She paused a moment; then asked, "Do you know, Mr. Travilla, how near I
came to being killed last night?"

He nodded.

"Well, suppose I had been killed, and had not loved Jesus; where would
I be now?"

He put his arm round her, and giving her a kiss, said, "I don't think
you would have been in any very bad place, Elsie; a sweet, amiable
little girl, who has never harmed any one, would surely not fare very
badly in another world."

She shook her head very gravely.

"Ah! Mr. Travilla, you forget the anathema, maranatha; if I had not
loved Jesus, and had my sins washed away in His blood, I could not have
been saved."

Just at this moment a servant came to tell Elsie that her papa wanted
her in the drawing-room, and Mr. Travilla, taking her hand, led her
into the house.

They found the company again grouped about the piano, listening to
Adelaide's music.

Elsie went directly to her father and stood by his side, putting her
hand in his with a gesture of confiding affection.

He smiled down at her, and kept fast hold of it until his sister had
risen from the instrument, when putting Elsie in her place, he said,
"Now, my daughter, let us have that song."

"Yes, papa," she replied, beginning the prelude at once, "I will do my
very best."

And so she did. The song was both well played and well sung, and her
father looked proud and happy as the gentlemen expressed their pleasure
and asked for another and another.

Thus the clouds which had so suddenly obscured little Elsie's sky,
seemed to have vanished as speedily as they had arisen.

Her father again treated her with all his wonted affection, and there
even seemed to be a depth of tenderness in his love which it had not
known before, for he could not forget how nearly he had lost her.



CHAPTER ELEVENTH


   "In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said, I thank
    thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid
    these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed
    them unto babes; even so, Father; for so it seemed good in
    thy sight."



Says the Apostle Paul, "I say the truth in Christ, I lie not, my
conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost, that I have great
heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart, for I could wish that
myself were accursed from Christ, for my brethren, my kinsmen according
to the flesh.... Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for
Israel is, that they might be saved."

And such, dear reader, is, in greater or less degree, the feeling of
every renewed heart; loving Jesus, it would fain have others love Him
too; it desires the salvation of all; but for that of its own dear ones
it longs and labors and prays; it is like Jacob wrestling with the
angel, when he said, "I will not let thee go except thou bless me."

And thus it was with Elsie. She knew now that her father was not a
Christian; that he had no real love for Jesus, none of the true fear of
God before his eyes. She saw that if he permitted her to read to him
from God's word, as he sometimes did, it was not that he felt any
pleasure in listening, but only to please her; she had no reason to
suppose he ever prayed, and though he went regularly to church, it was
because he considered it proper and respectable to do so, and not that
he cared to worship God, or to learn His will.

This conviction, which had gradually dawned upon Elsie, until now it
amounted to certainty, caused her great grief; she shed many tears over
it in secret, and very many and very earnest were the prayers she
offered up for her dear father's conversion.

She was sitting on his knee one evening in the drawing-room, while he
and several other gentlemen were conversing on the subject of religion.
They were discussing the question whether or no a change of heart were
necessary to salvation.

The general opinion seemed to be that it was not, and Elsie listened
with pain while her father expressed his decided conviction that all
who led an honest, upright, moral life, and attended to the outward
observances of religion, were quite safe.

"He could see no necessity for a change of heart; he did not believe in
the doctrine of total depravity, not he; no indeed, he thought the
world much better than many people would have us believe."

Elsie fixed her eyes on his face with a very mournful gaze while he was
speaking, but he was busy with his argument and did not notice her.

But one of the guests was just expressing his approval of Mr.
Dinsmore's sentiments, when catching sight of Elsie's face, he stopped,
remarking, "Your little girl looks as if she had something to say on
the subject; what is it, my dear?"

Elsie blushed, hesitated, and looked at her father.

"Yes, speak, my daughter, if you have anything to say," he said
encouragingly.

Elsie lifted her eyes timidly to the gentleman's face as she replied,
"I was just thinking, sir, of what our Saviour said to Nicodemus:
'Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot
see the kingdom of God.' 'Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be
born again.'"

She repeated these words of inspiration with a deep, earnest solemnity
that seemed to impress every hearer.

For a moment there was a deep hush in the room.

Then the gentleman asked, "Well, my little lady, and what is meant by
being born again?"

"O sir!" she replied, "surely you know that it means to have the image
of God, lost in Adam's fall, restored to us; it means what David asked
for when he prayed, 'Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a
right spirit within me.'"

"Where did you learn all this?" he asked, looking at her with mingled
surprise and admiration.

"In the Bible, sir," she modestly replied.

"You seem to have read it to some purpose," said he; "and now since you
consider that change so necessary, can you tell me how it is to be
brought about?"

"God's Holy Spirit, alone, can change a sinner's heart, sir."

"And how am I to secure His aid?" he asked.

Elsie answered with a text: "God is more willing to give His Holy
Spirit to them that ask Him, than parents are to give good gifts unto
their children."

He paused a moment; then asked, "Have you obtained this new heart, Miss
Elsie?"

"I hope I have, sir," she replied, the sweet little face all suffused
with blushes, and the soft, downcast eyes filling with tears.

"Why do you think so?" he asked again, "I think there is a text that
says you must be able always to give a reason for the hope that is in
you, or something to that effect, is there not?"

"Yes, sir: 'Be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh
you a reason of the hope that is in you, with meekness and fear.'" Then
raising her eyes to his face with a touching mixture of deep humility
and holy boldness, she continued, "And this, sir is my answer: Jesus
says, 'Him that cometh unto me, I will in no wise cast out;' and I
believe Him. I did go to Him, and He did not cast me out, but forgave
my sins, and taught me to love Him and desire to serve Him all my life."

This conversation between the gentleman and the little girl had drawn
the attention of all present; and now Mrs. Dinsmore, who had more than
once shown signs of impatience, said, "Well, Elsie, I think you have
now talked quite enough for a child of your age." Then, pulling out her
watch, "It is high time for little folks to be in bed."

Elsie, blushing deeply, would have retired immediately, but her father
held her fast, saying, as he gave his stepmother an angry glance, "You
need not go, Elsie, unless you choose; I am quite capable of judging
when it is time to send you to bed."

"I would rather go, if you please, papa," whispered Elsie, who had a
great dread of Mrs. Dinsmore's anger.

"Very well, then, you may do as you like," he replied, giving her a
good-night kiss. And with a graceful good-night to the company, the
little girl left the room.

Her questioner followed her with an admiring glance, then turning to
her father, exclaimed warmly, "She is a _remarkably_ intelligent child,
Dinsmore! one that any father might be proud of. I was astonished at
her answers."

"Yes," remarked Travilla, "a text has been running in my head ever
since you commenced your conversation; something about these things
being hid from the wise and prudent, and revealed unto babes. And," he
added, "I am sure if ever I saw one who possessed that new nature of
which she spoke, it is she herself. Has she any faults, Dinsmore?"

"Very few, _I_ think; though she would tell you a different story,"
replied her father with a gratified smile.

The next morning Elsie was sitting reading her Bible, when she suddenly
felt a hand laid on her head, and her father's voice said, "Good
morning, little daughter."

"Ah! papa, is that you?" she asked, raising her head to give him a
smile of joyful welcome. "I did not know you were there."

"Ah! I have been watching you for several minutes," he said; "always
poring over the same book, Elsie; do you never tire of it?"

"No, indeed, papa; it is always new, and I do love it so; it is so very
sweet. May I read a little to you?" she added coaxingly.

"Yes, I love to listen to anything read by my darling," he said,
sitting down and taking her on his knee.

She opened at the third chapter of John's Gospel and read it through.
At the sixteenth verse, "For God so loved the world, that He gave His
only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish,
but have everlasting life," she paused, and asked, "Was not that a
wonderful gift, papa? and wonderful love that prompted it?"

"Yes," he said, absently stroking her hair.

She finished the chapter, and closing the book, laid her head on his
breast, asking, "Dear papa, don't you believe the Bible?"

"Certainly, daughter; I am not an infidel," he replied in a careless
tone.

"Well, then, papa," she continued, half hesitatingly, "does not this
chapter teach very plainly that we must love Jesus, and have new
hearts, if we want to go to heaven?"

"Yes," he said, "I dare say it does."

Then taking the book from her, he laid it aside, and giving her a kiss,
said, "I was much pleased with your intelligent answers to Mr. Lee,
last evening."

Elsie sighed, and her eyes filled with tears. It was not what she
wanted.

"What an odd child you are!" he said, laughing. "You really look as
though I had been scolding, instead of praising you."

She dropped her head on his breast, and burst into tears and sobs.

"Why, Elsie, my own darling, what ails you?" he asked in great surprise.

"O papa!" she sobbed, "I want you to love Jesus."

"Oh! is _that_ all?" he said.

And setting her on her feet, he took her by the hand and led her out
into the garden, where they met Mr. Travilla and another gentleman, who
immediately entered into conversation with Mr. Dinsmore, while Elsie
wandered about amongst the flowers and shrubs, gathering a nosegay for
her Aunt Adelaide.




CHAPTER TWELFTH


   "She had waited for their coming,
      She had kiss'd them o'er and o'er--
    And they were so fondly treasured
      For the words of love they bore,
    Words that whispered in the silence,
      She had listened till his tone
    Seemed to linger in the echo
      'Darling, thou art all mine own!'"
                                 --MRS. J. C. NEAL.


"Pray, what weighty matter is troubling your young brain, birdie?"
asked Adelaide, laughingly laying her hand on Elsie's shoulder.
"Judging from the exceeding gravity of your countenance, one might
imagine that the affairs of the nation had been committed to your care."

"O auntie! can't you help me? won't you?" answered the little girl,
looking up coaxingly into the bright, cheerful face bent over her.

"Help you in what? reading with your book upside down, eh?" asked
Adelaide, pointing with a quizzical look at the volume of fairy tales
in her little niece's lap.

"Oh!" cried Elsie, coloring and laughing in her turn, "I was not
reading, and did not know that my book was wrong side up. But, Aunt
Adelaide, you know Christmas is coming soon, and I want to give papa
something, and I am quite puzzled about it. I thought of slippers, but
he has a very handsome pair, and besides there would hardly be time to
work them, as I have so many lessons; a purse won't do either, because
I have given him one already, and I would like it to be something worth
more than either slippers or purse. But you are so much wiser than I,
can't you help me think?"

"So _this_ is what has kept you so quiet and demure all day that I have
scarcely once heard you laugh or sing; quite an unusual state of things
of late," and Adelaide playfully pinched the round, rosy cheek. "Ahem!
let me put on my thinking cap," assuming an air of comic gravity. "Ah!
yes, I have it! your miniature, little one, of course; what could
please him better?"

"Oh! yes," cried Elsie, clapping her hands, "that will do nicely; why
didn't I think of it? Thank you, auntie. But then," she added, her
countenance falling, "how can I get it taken without his knowledge? you
know the surprise is half the fun."

"Never mind, my dear, I'll find a way to manage that," replied
Adelaide, confidently; "so just run away with you now, and see how much
money you can scrape together to spend on it."

"It won't take long to count it," Elsie said with a merry laugh. "But
here is papa just coming in at the door; I hope he won't suspect what
we have been talking about," and she bounded away to meet him and claim
the kiss he never refused her now.

Once Adelaide would not have been surprised at Elsie's quietness.
Patient and sweet tempered the little girl had always been, but more
especially after her father's return from Europe--very quiet and timid,
seeming to shrink from observation, with a constant dread of incurring
reproof or punishment; but the last few happy months, during which her
father had continued to lavish upon her every proof of the tenderest
affection, had wrought a great change in her; her manner had lost its
timidity, she moved about the house with a light and joyous step, and
it was no unusual thing to hear her merry, silvery laugh ring out, or
her sweet voice carolling like some wild bird of the wood--the natural
outgushings of her joy and thankfulness; for the little heart that had
so long been famishing for love, that had often grown so weary and sick
in its hungering and thirsting for it, was now fully satisfied, and
revelled in its new-found happiness.

"I have got it all arranged nicely, Elsie," Adelaide said, coming into
the room with a very pleased face as the little girl was preparing for
bed that evening. "Your papa is going away in a day or two to attend to
some business matters connected with your property, and will be absent
at least two weeks; so, unless he should take it into his head to carry
you along, we can easily manage about the picture."

Elsie looked up with a countenance of blank dismay.

"Why," said Adelaide, laughing, "I thought you'd be delighted with my
news, and instead of that, you look as if I had read you your
death-warrant."

"O Aunt Adelaide! two whole weeks without seeing papa! just think how
long."

"Pooh! nonsense, child! it will be gone before you know it. But now
tell me, how much money have you?"

"I have saved my allowance for two months; that makes twenty dollars,
you know, auntie, and I have a little change besides; do you think it
will be enough?"

"Hardly, I'm afraid; but I can lend you some, if necessary."

"Thank you, auntie," Elsie answered gratefully, "you are very kind; but
I couldn't take it, because papa has told me expressly that I must
never borrow money, nor run into debt in any way."

"Dear me!" exclaimed Adelaide, a little impatiently; "Horace certainly
is the most absurdly strict person I ever met with. But never mind, I
think we can manage it somehow," she added, in a livelier tone, as she
stooped to kiss her little niece good-night.

Elsie's gentle rap was heard very early at her papa's door the next
morning.

He opened it immediately, and springing into his arms, she asked,
almost tearfully, "Are you going away, papa?"

"Yes, darling," he said, caressing her fondly. "I must leave home for a
few weeks; and though I at first thought of taking you with me, upon
further consideration I have decided that it will be better to leave
you here; yet, if you desire it very much, my pet, I will take you
along. Shall I?"

"You know I would always rather be with you than anywhere else, papa,"
she answered, laying her head on his shoulder; "but you know best, and
I am quite willing to do whatever you say."

"That is right, daughter; my little Elsie is a good, obedient child,"
he said, pressing her closer to him.

"When are you going papa?" she asked, her voice trembling a little.

"To-morrow, directly after dinner, daughter."

"So soon," she sighed.

"The sooner I leave you the sooner I shall return, you know, darling,"
he said, patting her cheek, and smiling kindly on her.

"Yes, papa; but two weeks seems such a long, long time."

He smiled. "At your age I suppose it does, but when you are as old as I
am, you will think it very short. But to make it pass more quickly, you
may write me a little letter every day, and I will send you one just as
often."

"Oh! thank you, papa; that will be so pleasant," she answered, with a
brightening countenance. "I do so love to get letters, and I would
rather have one from you than from anybody else."

"Ah? then I think you ought to be willing to spare me for two weeks. I
have been thinking my little girl might perhaps be glad of a little
extra pocket-money for buying Christmas gifts," he said, taking out his
purse. "Would you?"

"Yes, papa; oh! _very_ much, indeed."

He laughed at her eager tone, and putting a fifty-dollar note into her
hand, asked, "Will that be enough?"

Elsie's eyes opened wide with astonishment.

"I never before had half so much as this," she exclaimed. "May I spend
it _all_, papa?"

"Provided you don't throw it away," he answered gravely; "but don't
forget that I require a strict account of all your expenditure."

"Must I tell you _every_ thing I buy?" she asked, her countenance
falling considerably.

"Yes, my child, you must; not until after Christmas, however, if you
would rather not."

"I will not mind it so much then," she answered, looking quite
relieved; "but indeed, papa, it is a great deal of trouble."

"Ah! my little girl must not be lazy," he said, shaking his head
gravely.

This was Elsie's first parting from her father since they had learned
to know and love each other; and when the time came to say good-by, she
clung to him, and seemed so loath to let him go, that he quite repented
of his determination to leave her at home.

"O papa, papa! I cannot bear to have you go, and leave me behind," she
sobbed. "I feel as if you were never coming back."

"Why, my own darling," he said, kissing her again and again, "why do
you talk so? I shall certainly be at home again in a fortnight; but if
I had thought you would feel so badly, I would have made arrangements
to take you with me. It is too late now, however, and you must let me
go, dearest. Be a good girl while I am gone, and when I return I will
bring you some handsome presents."

So saying, he embraced her once more, then putting her gently from him,
sprang into the carriage and was driven rapidly away.

Elsie stood watching until it was out of sight, and then ran away to
her own room to put her arms round her nurse's neck and hide her tears
on her bosom.

"Dere, dere, darlin'! dat will do now. Massa Horace he be back 'fore
long, and ole Chloe don' like for to see her chile 'stressin' herself
so," and the large, dusky hand was passed lovingly over the bright
curls, and tenderly wiped away the falling tears.

"But, O mammy! I'm afraid he will never come back. I'm afraid the
steamboat boiler will burst, or the cars will run off the track, or----"

"Hush, hush, darlin'! dat's wicked; you must jes' trust de Lord to take
care of Massa Horace; He's jes' as able to do it one place as in
tudder; an ef you an' your ole mammy keep prayin' for Massa, I'se
_sure_ he'll come back safe, kase don't you remember what de good book
says, 'If any two of you agree----'"

"Oh! yes, dear mammy, thank you for remembering it," exclaimed the
little girl, lifting her head and smiling through her tears. "I won't
cry any more now, but will just try to keep thinking how glad I will be
when papa comes home again."

"A very sensible resolution, my dear," said Adelaide, putting her head
in at the door; "so come, dry your eyes, and let mammy put on your
bonnet and cloak as fast as possible, for I have begged a holiday for
you, and am going to carry you off to the city to do some shopping, et
cetera."

"Ah! I think I know what that et cetera means, auntie, don't I?"
laughed Elsie, as she hastened to obey.

"Dear me! how very wise some people are," said her aunt, smiling and
nodding good-naturedly. "But make haste, my dear, for the carriage is
at the door."

When Elsie laid her head upon her pillow that night she acknowledged to
herself, that in spite of her father's absence--and she had, at times,
missed him sadly--the day had been a very short and pleasant one to
her, owing to her Aunt Adelaide's thoughtful kindness in taking her out
into new scenes, and giving agreeable occupation to her thoughts.

She rose at her usual early hour the next morning, and though feeling
lonely, comforted herself with the hope of receiving the promised
letter; and her face was full of eager expectation, as her grandfather,
in his usual leisurely manner, opened the bag and distributed its
contents.

"Two letters for Elsie!" he said, in a tone of surprise, just as she
was beginning to despair of her turn coming at all. "Ah; one is from
Horace, I see; and the other from Miss Allison, no doubt."

Elsie could hardly restrain her eagerness while he held them in his
hand, examining and commenting upon the address, postmark, etc.

But at length he tossed them to her, remarking, "There! if you are done
your breakfast, you had better run away and read them."

"Oh! thank you, grandpa," she said, gladly availing herself of his
permission.

"Elsie is fortunate to-day," observed Lora looking after her. "I wonder
which she will read first."

"Her father's, of course," replied Adelaide. "He is more to her than
all the rest of the world put together."

"A matter of small concern to the rest of the world, I opine," remarked
Mrs. Dinsmore, dryly.

"Perhaps so, mamma," said Adelaide, quietly; "yet I think there are
_some_ who prize Elsie's affection."

Yes, Adelaide was right. Miss Rose's letter was neglected and almost
forgotten, while Elsie read and reread her papa's with the greatest
delight.

It gave an amusing account of the day's journey; but what constituted
its chief charm for the little girl was that it was filled with
expressions of the tenderest affection for her.

Then came the pleasant task of answering, which occupied almost all her
spare time, for letter-writing was still, to her, a rather new and
difficult business, Miss Allison having hitherto been her only
correspondent. And this was a pleasure which was renewed every day, for
her papa faithfully kept his promise, each morning bringing her a
letter, until at length one came announcing the speedy return of the
writer.

Elsie was almost wild with delight.

"Aunt Adelaide," she cried, running to her to communicate the glad
tidings, "papa says he will be here this very afternoon."

"Well, my dear, as we have already attended to all the business that
needed to be kept secret from him, I am very glad to hear it,
especially for _your_ sake," replied Adelaide, looking up for a moment
from the book she was reading, and then returning to it again, while
her little niece danced out of the room, with her papa's letter still
in her hand, and a face beaming with happiness.

She met Mrs. Dinsmore in the hall.

"Why are you skipping about in that mad fashion, Elsie?" she asked,
severely; "I believe you will never learn to move and act like a lady."

"I will try, madam, indeed," Elsie answered, subsiding into a slow and
steady gait which would not have disgraced a woman of any age; "but I
was so glad that papa is coming home to-day, that I could not help
skipping."

"Indeed!" and with a scornful toss of the head, Mrs. Dinsmore sailed
past her and entered the drawing-room.

Elsie had once, on her first arrival at Roselands, addressed Mrs.
Dinsmore, in the innocence of her heart, as "grandma," but that lady's
horrified look, and indignant repudiation of the ancient title, had
made a deep impression on the little girl's memory, and effectually
prevented any repetition of the offence.

As the hour drew near when her father might reasonably be expected,
Elsie took her station at one of the drawing-room windows overlooking
the avenue, and the moment the carriage appeared in sight, she ran out
and stood waiting for him on the steps of the portico.

Mr. Dinsmore put out his head as they drove up the avenue, and the
first object that caught his eye was the fairy-like form of his little
daughter, in her blue merino dress, and the golden brown curls waving
in the wind. He sprang out and caught her in his arms the instant the
carriage stopped.

"My darling, darling child," he cried, kissing her over and over again,
and pressing her fondly to his heart, "how glad I am to have you in my
arms again!"

"Papa, papa, my own dear, dear papa!" she exclaimed, throwing her arms
around his neck, "I'm _so_ happy, now that you have come home safe and
well."

"Are you, darling? but I must not keep you out in this wind, for it is
quite chilly."

He set her down, and leaving the servant to attend lo his baggage, led
her into the hall.

"Will you come into the drawing-room, papa?" she said; "there is a
bright, warm fire there."

"Is there not one in my dressing-room?" he asked.

"Yes, papa, a very good one."

"Then we will go there. I dare say the rest of the family are in no
great hurry to see me, and I want my little girl to myself for half an
hour," he said, leading the way up-stairs as he spoke.

They found, as Elsie had reported, a very bright fire in the
dressing-room. A large easy chair was drawn up near it, and a handsome
dressing-gown and slippers were placed ready for use; all the work of
Elsie's loving little hands.

He saw it all at a glance, and with a pleased smile, stooped and kissed
her again, saying, "My dear little daughter is very thoughtful for her
papa's comfort."

Then exchanging his warm out-door apparel and heavy boots for the
dressing-gown and slippers, he seated himself in the chair and took her
on his knee.

"Well, daughter," he said, passing his hand caressingly over her curls,
"papa has brought you a present; will you have it now, or shall it be
kept for Christmas?"

"Keep it for Christmas, papa," she answered gayly. "Christmas is almost
here, and besides, I don't want to look at anything but you to-night."

"Very well, look at me as much as you like," was his laughing
rejoinder. "And now tell me, have you been a good girl in my absence?"

"As good as I ever am, I believe, papa. I tried very hard; but you can
ask Miss Day."

"No, I am entirely satisfied with your report, for I know my little
daughter is quite truthful."

Elsie colored with pleasure, then calling to mind the time when he had
for a moment suspected her of falsehood, she heaved a deep sigh,
dropping her head upon his breast.

He seemed to understand her thoughts, for, pressing his lips to her
forehead, he said gently and kindly, "I think I shall never again doubt
my little daughter's truth."

She looked up with a grateful smile.

"Miss Day has gone away to stay until after New Year's day, papa," she
said, "and so our holidays have begun."

"Ah! I am very well satisfied," said he. "I think you have earned a
holiday, and I hope you will enjoy it. But I don't know that I shall
let _you_ play _all_ the time," he added with a smile; "I have some
notion of giving you a lesson now and then, myself."

"Dear papa, how pleasant!" she exclaimed delightedly; "I do so love to
say lessons to you."

"Well, then, we will spend an hour together every morning. But are you
not to have some company?"

"Oh! yes, papa, quite a house full," she said with a slight sigh. "The
Percys, and the Howards, and all the Carringtons, and some others too,
I believe."

"Why do you sigh, daughter?" he asked; "do you not expect to enjoy
their company?"

"Yes, sir, I hope so," she answered, rather dubiously; "but when there
are so many, and they stay so long, they are apt to disagree, and that,
you know, is not pleasant. I am sure I shall enjoy the hour with you
better than anything else; it is so sweet to be quite alone with my own
darling papa," and the little arm stole softly round his neck again,
and the rosy lips touched his cheek.

"Well, when are the little plagues coming?" he asked, returning her
caress.

"Some of them to-morrow, papa; no, Monday--to-morrow is Sabbath day."

"Shall I bring in de trunks now, massa?" asked Mr. Dinsmore's servant,
putting his head in at the door.

"Yes, John, certainly."

"Why, you brought back a new one, papa, didn't you?" asked Elsie, as
John carried in one she was sure she had never seen before, and in
obedience to a motion of her father's hand, set it down quite near them.

"Yes, my dear, it is yours. There, John, unlock it," tossing him the
key. "And now, daughter, get down and see what you can find in it worth
having."

Elsie needed no second bidding, but in an instant was on her knees
beside the trunk, eager to examine its contents.

"Take the lid off the band-box first, and see what is there," said her
father.

"O papa, how _very_ pretty!" she cried, as she lifted out a beautiful
little velvet hat adorned with a couple of ostrich feathers.

"I am very glad it pleases you, my darling," he said, putting it on her
head, and gazing at her with proud delight in her rare beauty. "There!
it fits exactly, and is very becoming."

Then taking it off, he returned it to the box, and bade her look
further.

"I am reserving the present for Christmas," he said, in answer to her
inquiring look.

Elsie turned to the trunk again.

"Dear papa, how good you are to me!" she said, looking up at him almost
with tears of pleasure in her eyes, as she lifted out, one after
another, a number of costly toys, which she examined with exclamations
of delight, and then several handsome dresses, some of the finest,
softest merino, and others of thick rich silk, all ready made in
fashionable style, and doing credit to his taste and judgment; and
lastly a beautiful velvet pelisse, trimmed with costly fur, just the
thing to wear with her pretty new hat.

He laughed and patted her cheek.

"We must have these dresses tried on," he said, "at least one of them;
for as they were all cut by the same pattern--one of your old dresses
which I took with me--I presume they will all fit alike. There, take
this one to mammy, and tell her to put it on you, and then come back to
me."

"Oh! I wondered how you could get them the right size, papa," Elsie
answered, as she skipped gayly out of the room.

She was back again in a very few moments, arrayed in the pretty silk he
had selected.

"Ah! it seems to be a perfect fit," said he, turning her round and
round, with a very gratified look.

"Mammy must dress you to-morrow in one of these new frocks, and your
pretty hat and pelisse."

Elsie looked troubled.

"Well, what is it?" he asked.

"I am afraid I shall be thinking of them in church, papa, if I wear
them then for the first time."

"Pooh! nonsense! what harm if you do? This squeamishness, Elsie, is the
one thing about you that displeases me very much. But there! don't look
so distressed, my pet. I dare say you will get over it by-and-by, and
be all I wish; indeed I sometimes think you have improved a little
already, in that respect."

Oh! what a pang these words sent to her heart! was it indeed true that
she was losing her tenderness of conscience? that she was becoming less
afraid of displeasing and dishonoring her Saviour than in former days?
The very thought was anguish.

Her head drooped upon her bosom, and the small white hands were clasped
convulsively together, while a bitter, repenting cry, a silent earnest
prayer for pardon and help went up to Him whose ear is ever open to the
cry of His children.

Her father looked at her in astonishment.

"What is it, darling?" he asked, drawing her tenderly toward him, and
pushing back the curls from her face; "why do you look so pained? what
did I say that could have hurt you so? I did not mean to be harsh and
severe, for it was a very trifling fault."

She hid her face on his shoulder and burst into an agony of tears.

"It was not that, papa, but--but----"

"But what, my darling? don't be afraid to tell me," he answered,
soothingly.

"O papa! I--I am afraid I don't--love Jesus--as much as I did," she
faltered out between her sobs.

"Ah! _that_ is it, eh? Well, well, you needn't cry any more. _I_ think
you are a very good little girl, though rather a silly one, I am
afraid, and quite too morbidly conscientious."

He took her on his knee as he spoke, wiped away her tears, and then
began talking in a lively strain of something else.

Elsie listened, and answered him cheerfully, but all the evening he
noticed that whenever she was quiet, an unusual expression of sadness
would steal over her face.

"What a strange child she is!" he said to himself, as he sat musing
over the fire, after sending her to bed. "I cannot understand her; it
is very odd how often I wound, when I intend to please her."

As for Elsie, she scarcely thought of her new finery, so troubled was
her tender conscience, so pained her little heart to think that she had
been wandering from her dear Saviour.

But Elsie had learned that "if any man sin, we have an advocate with
the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous," and to Him she went with her
sin and sorrow; she applied anew to the pardoning, peace-speaking blood
of Christ--that "blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things than
that of Abel;" and thus the sting of conscience was taken away and her
peace restored, and she was soon resting quietly on her pillow, for,
"so He giveth His beloved sleep."

Even her father's keen, searching glance, when she came to him in the
morning, could discover no trace of sadness in her face; very quiet and
sober it was, but entirely peaceful and happy, and so it remained all
through the day. Her new clothes did not trouble her; she was hardly
conscious of wearing them, and quite able to give her usual solemn and
fixed attention to the services of the sanctuary.

"Where are you going, daughter?" Mr. Dinsmore asked, as Elsie gently
withdrew her hand from his on leaving the dining-room.

"To my room, papa," she replied.

"Come with me," he said; "I want you."

"What do you want me for, papa?" she asked, as he sat down and took her
on his knee.

"What for? why to keep, to love, and to look at," he said laughing. "I
have been away from my little girl so long, that now I want her close
by my side, or on my knee, all the time. Do you not like to be with me?"

"_Dearly_ well, my own darling papa," she answered, flinging her little
arms around his neck, and laying her head on his breast.

He fondled her, and chatted with her for some time, then, still keeping
her on his knee, took up a book and began to read.

Elsie saw with pain that it was a novel and longed to beg him to put it
away, and spend the precious hours of the holy Sabbath in the study of
God's word, or some of the lesser helps to Zion's pilgrims which the
saints of our own or other ages have prepared. But she knew that it
would be quite out of place for a little child like her to attempt to
counsel or reprove her father; and that, tenderly as he loved and
cherished her, he would never for one moment allow her to forget their
relative positions.

At length she ventured to ask softly, "Papa, may I go to my own room
now?"

"What for?" he asked; "are you tired of my company?"

"No, sir, _oh! no;_ but I want--" she hesitated and hung her head for
an instant, while the rich color mounted to cheek and brow; then
raising it again, she said fearlessly, "I always want to spend a little
while with my best Friend on Sabbath afternoon, papa."

He looked puzzled, and also somewhat displeased.

"I don't understand you, Elsie," he said; "you surely can have no
better friend than your own father; and can it be _possible_ that you
love any one else better than you love me?"

Again the little arms were round his neck, and hugging him close and
closer, she whispered, "It was Jesus I meant, papa; you know He loves
me even better than you do, and I must love Him best of all; but there
is no one else that I love half so much as I love you, my own dear,
dear precious father."

"Well, you may go; but only for a little while, mind," he answered,
giving her a kiss, and setting her down. "Nay," he added hastily, "stay
as long as you like; if you feel it a punishment to be kept here with
me, I would rather do without you."

"Oh! no, no, papa," she said beseechingly, and with tears in her eyes;
"I do so love to be with you. Please don't be angry; please let me come
back soon."

"No, darling, I am not angry," he answered, smoothing her hair and
smiling kindly on her; "come back just when you like, and the sooner
the better."

Elsie did not stay away very long; in less than an hour she returned,
bringing her Bible and "Pilgrim's Progress" with her.

Her father welcomed her with a smile, and then turned to his novel
again, while she drew a stool to his side, and, sitting down, leaned
her head against his knee, and read until the short winter day began to
close in, and Mr. Dinsmore, whose hand had been every now and then laid
caressingly upon her curls, said, "Put away your book now, daughter; it
is growing too dark for you to read without straining your eyes."

"Please, papa, let me finish the paragraph first; may I?" she asked.

"No; you must always obey the instant I speak to you."

Elsie rose at once, and without another word laid her books upon the
table; then coming back, claimed her accustomed place upon his knee,
with her head resting on his shoulder.

He put his arm around her, and they sat silently thus for some moments.
At length Elsie asked, "Papa, did you ever read 'Pilgrim's Progress!'"

"Yes; a good while ago, when I was quite a boy."

"And you did not like it, papa?"

"Yes, very much, though I have nearly forgotten the story now. Do _you_
like it?"

"Very much, indeed, papa; I think it comes next to the Bible."

"Next to the Bible, eh? well, I believe you are the only little girl of
my acquaintance who thinks _that_ the most beautiful and interesting
book in the world. But, let me see, what is this 'Pilgrim's Progress'
about? some foolish story of a man with a great load on his back; is it
not?"

"Foolish! papa; oh! I am sure you don't mean it; you couldn't think it
foolish. Ah! I know by your smile that you are only saying it to tease
me. It is a beautiful story, papa, about Christian: how he lived in the
City of Destruction, and had a great burden on his back, which he tried
in every way to get rid of, but all in vain, until he came to the
Cross; but then it seemed suddenly to loosen of itself, and dropped
from his back, and rolled away, and fell into the sepulchre, where it
could not be seen any more."

"Well, and is not _that_ a foolish story? can you see any sense or
meaning in it?" he asked, with a slight smile, and a keen glance into
the eager little face upturned to his.

"Ah! papa, I know what it means," she answered, in a half-sorrowful
tone. "Christian, with the load on his back, is a person who has been
convinced of sin by God's Holy Spirit, and feels his sins a heavy
burden--too heavy for him to bear; and then he tries to get rid of them
by leaving off his wicked ways, and by doing good deeds; but he soon
finds he can't get rid of his load that way, for it only grows heavier
and heavier, until at last he gives up trying to save himself, and just
goes to the cross of Jesus Christ; and the moment he looks to Jesus and
trusts in Him, his load of sin is all gone."

Mr. Dinsmore was surprised; as indeed he had often been at Elsie's
knowledge of spiritual things.

"Who told you all that?" he asked.

"I read it in the Bible, papa; and besides, I know, because I have felt
it."

He did not speak again for some moments; and then he said very gravely,
"I am afraid you read too many of those dull books. I don't want you to
read things that fill you with sad and gloomy thoughts, and make you
unhappy. I want my little girl to be merry and happy as the day is
long."

"Please don't forbid me to read them, papa," she pleaded with a look of
apprehension, "for indeed they don't make me unhappy, and I love them
so dearly."

"You need not be alarmed. I shall not do so unless I see that they do
affect your spirits," he answered in a reassuring tone, and she thanked
him with her own bright, sweet smile.

She was silent for a moment, then asked suddenly, "Papa, may I say some
verses to you?"

"Some time," he said, "but not now, for there is the tea-bell;" and
taking her hand, he led her down to the dining-room.

They went to the drawing-room after tea, but did not stay long. There
were no visitors, and it was very dull and quiet there, no one seeming
inclined for conversation. Old Mr. Dinsmore sat nodding in his chair,
Louise was drumming on the piano, and the rest were reading or sitting
listlessly, saying nothing, and Elsie and her papa soon slipped away to
their old seat by his dressing-room fire.

"Sing something for me, my pet, some of those little hymns I often hear
you singing to yourself," he said, as he took her on his knee; and
Elsie gladly obeyed.

Some of the pieces she sang alone, but in others which were familiar to
him, her father joined his deep bass notes to her sweet treble, at
which she was greatly delighted. Then they read several chapters of the
Bible together, and thus the evening passed so quickly and pleasantly
that she was very much surprised when her papa, taking out his watch,
told her it was her bed-time.

"O papa! it has been such a nice, _nice_ evening!" she said, as she
bade him good-night; "so like the dear old times I used to have with
Miss Rose, only--"

She paused and colored deeply.

"Only what, darling?" he asked, drawing her caressingly to him.

"Only, papa, if you would pray with me, like she did," she whispered,
winding her arms about his neck, and hiding her face on his shoulder.

"That I cannot do, my pet, I have never learned how; and so I fear you
will have to do all the praying for yourself and me too," he said, with
a vain effort to speak lightly, for both heart and conscience were
touched.

The only reply was a tightening of the clasp of the little arms about
his neck, and a half-suppressed sob; then two trembling lips touched
his, a warm tear fell on his cheek, and she turned away and ran quickly
from the room.

Oh! how earnest and importunate were Elsie's pleadings at a throne of
grace that night, that her "dear, _dear_ papa might soon be taught to
love Jesus, and how to pray to Him." Tears fell fast while she prayed,
but she rose from her knees feeling a joyful assurance that her
petitions had been heard, and would be granted in God's own good time.

She had hardly laid her head upon her pillow, when her father came in,
and saying, "I have come to sit beside my little girl till she falls
asleep," placed himself in a chair close by her side, taking her hand
in his and holding it, as she loved so to have him do.

"I am _so_ glad you have come, papa," she said, her whole face lighting
up with pleased surprise.

"Are you?" he answered with a smile. "I'm afraid I am spoiling you; but
I can't help it to-night. I think you forget your wish to repeat some
verses to me?"

"Oh! yes, papa!" she said, "but may I say them now?"

He nodded assent, and she went on. "They are some Miss Rose sent me in
one of her letters. She cut them out of a newspaper, she said, and sent
them to me because she liked them so much; and I too think they are
very sweet. The piece is headed:

             "'THE PILGRIM'S WANTS.'

    "'I want a sweet sense of Thy pardoning love,
      That my manifold sins are forgiven;
    That Christ, as my Advocate, pleadeth above,
      That my name is recorded in heaven.

    "'I want every moment to feel
      That thy Spirit resides in my heart--
    That his power is present to cleanse and to heal,
      And newness of life to impart.

    "'I want--oh! I want to attain
       Some likeness, my Saviour, to thee!
    That longed for resemblance once more to regain,
      Thy comeliness put upon me.

    "'I want to be marked for thine own--
      Thy seal on my forehead to wear;
    To receive that new name on the mystic white stone
      Which none but thyself can declare.

    "'I want so in thee to abide
      As to bring forth some fruit to thy praise;
    The branch which thou prunest, though feeble and dried,
      May languish, but never decays.

    "'I want thine own hand to unbind
      Each tie to terrestrial things,
    Too tenderly cherished, too closely entwined,
      Where my heart so tenaciously clings.

    "'I want, by my aspect serene,
      My actions and words, to declare
    That my treasure is placed in a country unseen,
      That my heart's best affections are there.

    "'I want as a trav'ller to haste
      Straight onward, nor pause on my way;
    Nor forethought in anxious contrivance to waste
      On the tent only pitched for a day.

    "'I want--and this sums up my prayer--
      To glorify thee till I die;
    Then calmly to yield up my soul to thy care,
      And breathe out in faith my last sigh.'"

Footnote: These beautiful words are not mine, nor do I know either the
name of the author or where they were originally published.

He was silent for a moment after she had repeated the last verse, then
laying his hand softly on her head, and looking searchingly into her
eyes, he asked, "And does my little one really wish all that those
words express?"

"Yes, papa, for myself and for you too," she answered. "O papa! I do
want to be all that Jesus would have me! just like Him; so like Him
that everybody who knows me will see the likeness and know that I
belong to Him."

"Nay, you belong to me," he said, leaning over her and patting her
cheek. "Hush! not a syllable from your lips. I will have no gainsaying
of my words," he added, with a mixture of authority and playfulness, as
she seemed about to reply. "Now shut your eyes and go to sleep; I will
have no more talking to-night."

She obeyed at once; the white lids gently closed over the sweet eyes,
the long, dark lashes rested quietly on the fair, round cheek, and soon
her soft regular breathing told that she had passed into the land of
dreams.

Her father sat, still holding the little hand, and still gazing
tenderly upon the sweet young face, till, something in its expression
reminding him of words she had just repeated,

    "I want to be marked for thine own--
     Thy seal on my forehead to wear,"

he laid it gently down, rose, and bent over her with a troubled look.

"Ah, my darling, _that_ prayer is granted already!" he murmured; "for,
ah me! you seem almost too good and pure for earth. But oh, God forbid
that you should be taken from me to that place where I can see that
your heart is even now. How desolate should I be!" and he turned away
with a shiver and a heavy sigh, and hastily quitted the room.




CHAPTER THIRTEENTH


   "An angel face! its sunny wealth of hair,
    In radiant ripples bathed the graceful throat
    And dimpled shoulders."
                                 --MRS. OSGOOD.


The cold gray light of a winter morning was stealing in through the
half-closed blinds as Elsie awoke, and started up in bed, with the
thought that this was the day on which several of her young guests were
expected, and that her papa had promised her a walk with him before
breakfast, if she were ready in time.

Aunt Chloe had already risen, and a bright fire was blazing and
crackling on the hearth, which she was carefully sweeping up.

"Good morning, mammy," said the little girl. "Are you ready to dress me
now?"

"What, you 'wake, darlin'?" cried the fond old creature, turning
quickly round at the sound of her nursling's voice. "Better lie still,
honey, till de room gets warm."

"I'll wait a little while, mammy," Elsie said, lying down again, "but I
must get up soon; for I wouldn't miss my walk with papa for a great
deal. Please throw the shutters wide open, and let the daylight in. I'm
so glad it has come."

"Why, my bressed lamb, you didn't lie awake lookin' for de mornin', did
you? You ain't sick, nor sufferin' any way?" exclaimed Chloe, in a tone
of mingled concern and inquiry, as she hastily set down her broom, and
came toward the bed, with a look of loving anxiety on her dark face.

"Oh, no, mammy! I slept nicely, and feel as well as can be," replied
the little girl; "but I am glad to see this new day, because I hope it
is going to be a very happy one. Carry Howard, and a good many of my
little friends are coming, you know, and I think we will have a very
pleasant time together."

"Your ole mammy hopes you will, darlin'," replied Chloe, heartily; "an'
I'se glad 'nough to see you lookin' so bright an' well; but jes you lie
still till it gets warm here. I'll open de shutters, an' fotch some
more wood for de fire, an' clar up de room, an' by dat time I reckon
you can get up."

Elsie waited patiently till Chloe pronounced the room warm enough, then
sprang up with an eager haste, asking to be dressed as quickly as
possible, that she might go to her papa.

"Don't you go for to worry yourself, darlin'; dere's plenty ob time,"
said Chloe, beginning her work with all speed, however; "de mistress
had ordered de breakfast at nine, dese holiday times, to let de ladies
an' gen'lemen take a mornin' nap if dey likes it."

"Oh, yes, mammy! and that reminds me that papa said I must eat a
cracker or something before I take my walk, because he thinks it isn't
good for people to exercise much on an entirely empty stomach," said
Elsie. "Will you get me one when you have done my curls?"

"Yes, honey, dere's a paper full in de drawer yonder," replied Chloe,
"an' I reckon you better eat two or three, or you'll be mighty hungry
'fore you gits your breakfast."

It still wanted a few minutes of eight o'clock when Elsie's gentle rap
was heard at her papa's dressing-room door. He opened it, and stooping
to give her a good-morning kiss, said, with a pleased smile, "How
bright and well my darling looks! Had you a good night's rest?"

"Oh, yes, papa! I never waked once till it began to be light," she
replied; "and now I'm all ready for our walk."

"In good season, too," he said. "Well, we will start presently; but
take off your hat and come and sit on my knee a little while first;
breakfast will be late this morning, and we need not hurry. Did you get
something to eat?" he asked, as he seated himself by the fire and drew
her to his side.

"Yes, papa, I ate a cracker, and I think I will not get very hungry
before nine o'clock; and I'm very glad we have so much time for our
walk," she replied, as she took her place on his knee. "Shall we not
start soon?"

"Presently," he said, stroking her hair; "but it will not hurt you to
get well warmed first, for it is a sharp morning."

"You are very careful of me, dear papa," she said, laying her head on
his breast, "and oh! it is so nice to have a papa to love me and take
care of me."

"And it is so nice to have a dear little daughter to love and to take
care of," he answered, pressing her closer to him.

The house was still very quiet, no one seeming to be astir but the
servants, as Mr. Dinsmore and Elsie went down the stairs and passed out
through the hall.

"O papa! it is going to be such a nice day, and I feel so happy!" Elsie
gayly exclaimed, as they started down the avenue.

"Do you, daughter?" he said, regarding her with an expression of
intense yearning affection; "I wish I could make you always as gay and
happy as you are at this moment. But alas! it cannot be, my darling,"
he added with a sigh.

"I know that, papa," she said with sudden gravity, "'for man that is
born of woman is of few days, and full of trouble,' the Bible says; but
I don't feel frightened at that, because it tells me, besides, that
Jesus loves me, _oh, so dearly!_ and will never leave nor forsake me;
and that He has all power in heaven and in earth, and will _never_ let
anything happen to me but what shall do me good. O papa, it is such a
_happy_ thing to have the dear Lord Jesus for your friend!"

"It is strange how everything seems to lead your thoughts to Him," he
said, giving her a wondering look.

"Yes, papa, it is because I love Him so," she answered, simply; and the
father sighed as the thought arose, "Better than she loves me, even as
she told me herself. Ah! I would I could be _all_--_everything_ to her,
as she is fast becoming to me. I cannot feel satisfied, and yet I
believe few daughters love their fathers as well as she loves me;" and
fondly pressing the little hand he held, he looked down upon her with
beaming eyes.

She raised hers to his face with an expression of confiding affection;
and, as though she had read his thoughts: "Yes, papa," she said, "I
love _you_ dearly, dearly, too; better than all the world besides."

Breakfast--always a plentiful and inviting meal at Roselands--was
already upon the table when they returned, and they brought to it
appetites sufficiently keen to make it very enjoyable.

Elsie spent the first hour after breakfast at the piano, practising,
and the second in her papa's dressing-room, studying and reciting to
him; then they took a long ride on horseback, and when they returned
she found that quite a number of the expected guests had already
arrived.

Among them was Caroline Howard, a favorite friend of Elsie's; a pretty,
sweet-tempered little girl, about a year older than herself.

Caroline had been away paying a long visit to some friends in the
North, and so the two little girls had not met for nearly a year, and
of course they had a great deal to say to each other.

They chatted a few moments in the drawing-room, and then Elsie carried
her friend off with her to her own room, that they might go on with
their talk while she was getting dressed for dinner. Caroline had much
to tell of her Northern relatives, and of all she had seen and heard,
and Elsie of her new-found parent, and her happiness in being so loved
and cared for; and so the little tongues ran very fast, neither of them
feeling Chloe's presence any restraint. But she soon completed her
task, and went out, leaving the two sitting on the sofa together,
laughing and talking merrily while awaiting the summons to dinner,
which they were to take that day along with their elders.

"How pretty your hair is, Elsie," said Caroline, winding the glossy
ringlets around her finger. "I wish you'd give me one of these curls. I
want to get a bracelet made for mamma, and she thinks so much of you,
and your hair is such a lovely color, that I am sure she would be
delighted with one made of it."

"A Christmas gift is it to be?" asked Elsie; "but how will you get it
done in time? for you know day after to-morrow is Christmas."

"Yes, I know; but if I could get into the city this afternoon, I think
I might get them to promise it by to-morrow night."

"Well, you shall have the curl, at any rate, if you will just take the
scissors and help yourself, and poor mammy will have the fewer to curl
the next time," Elsie answered, laughingly. "But mind," she added, as
Caroline prepared to avail herself of the permission, "that you take it
where it will not be missed."

"Of course I will; I don't want to spoil your beauty, though you are so
much prettier than I," was Caroline's laughing rejoinder. "There," she
cried, holding up the severed ringlet, "isn't it a beauty? but don't
look scared, it will never be missed among so many; I don't even miss
it myself, although I know it is gone."

"Well," Elsie said, shaking back her curls, "suppose we go down to the
drawing-room now, and I will ask papa to take us to the city this
afternoon; or, if he is too busy to go himself, to let Pomp or Ajax
drive us in."

"I think it would be better fun to go alone, Elsie--don't you?" asked
Caroline, with some hesitation; adding quickly: "Don't be vexed, but I
must confess I am more than half afraid of your father."

"Oh! you wouldn't be, Carry, if you knew him," Elsie answered, in her
eager way; "I was a little myself, at first, but now I love him so
dearly, I never want to go anywhere without him."

They found Mr. Dinsmore in the drawing-room, where most of the guests
and the older members of the family were assembled. He was conversing
with a strange gentleman, and his little girl stood quietly at his
side, patiently waiting until he should be ready to give her his
attention. She had to wait some moments, for the gentlemen were
discussing some political question, and were too much engaged to notice
her.

But at length her father put his arm around her, and with a kind smile
asked, "What is it, daughter?"

"Carry and I want to go to the city, this afternoon; won't you take us,
papa?"

"I wish I could, my dear, but I have an engagement, which makes it
quite impossible."

"Ah, I'm so sorry! but then, papa, we may have one of the carriages,
and Pomp or Ajax to drive us, may we not?"

"No, daughter; I am sorry to disappoint you, but I am afraid you are
too young to be trusted on such an expedition with only a servant. You
must wait until to-morrow, when I can take you myself."

"But, papa, we want to go to-day. Oh! please do say yes; we want to go
so very much, and I'm sure we could do very nicely by ourselves."

Her arm was around his neck, and both tone and look were very coaxing.

"My little daughter forgets that when papa says no, she is never to ask
again."

Elsie blushed and hung her head. His manner was quite too grave and
decided for her to venture another word.

"What is the matter? what does Elsie want?" asked Adelaide, who was
standing near, and had overheard enough to have some idea of the
trouble.

Mr. Dinsmore explained, and Adelaide at once offered to take charge of
the little girls, saying that she intended shopping a little in the
city herself that very afternoon.

"Thank you," said her brother, looking very much pleased; "that
obviates the difficulty entirely. Elsie, you may go, if Mrs. Howard
gives Caroline permission."

"Thank you, dear papa, thank you so very much," she answered
gratefully, and then ran away to tell Carry of her success, and secure
Mrs. Howard's permission, which was easily obtained.

Elsie had intended buying some little present for each of the
house-servants, and had taken a great deal of pleasure in making out a
list of such articles as she thought would be suitable; but, on
examining her purse, she found to her dismay that she had already spent
so much on the miniature, and various gifts intended for other members
of the family, that there was very little left; and it was with a very
sober, almost sorrowful face, that she came down to take her place in
the carriage; it brightened instantly, though, as she caught sight of
her father waiting to see her off.

"All ready, my darling?" he said, holding out his hand; "I think you
will have a pleasant ride."

"Ah! yes, if you were only going too, papa," she answered regretfully.

"Quite impossible, my pet; but here is something to help you in your
shopping; use it wisely;" and he put a twenty-dollar gold piece in her
hand.

"Oh, thank you, papa! how good and kind you are to me!" she exclaimed,
her whole face lighting up with pleasure; "now I can buy some things I
wanted to get for mammy and the rest. But how could you know I wanted
more money?"

He only smiled, lifted her up in his arms, and kissed her fondly; then,
placing her in the carriage, said to the coachman, "Drive carefully,
Ajax; you are carrying my greatest treasure."

"Nebber fear, marster; dese ole horses nebber tink ob running away,"
replied the negro, with a bow and a grin, as he touched his horses with
the whip, and drove off.

It was growing quite dark when the carriage again drove up the avenue;
and Mr. Horace Dinsmore, who was beginning to feel a little anxious,
came out to receive them, and ask what had detained them so long.

"Long!" said Adelaide, in a tone of surprise, "you gentlemen really
have no idea what an undertaking it is to shop. Why, I thought we got
through in a wonderfully short time."

"O papa, I have bought such quantities of nice things," cried Elsie,
springing into his arms.

"Such as tobacco pipes, red flannel, et cetera," remarked Adelaide,
laughing.

"Indeed, Miss Adelaide!" exclaimed Carry, somewhat indignantly, "you
forget the----"

But Elsie's little hand was suddenly placed over her mouth, and Carry
laughed pleasantly, saying, "Ah! I forgot, I mustn't tell."

"Papa, papa," cried Elsie, catching hold of his hand, "do come with me
to my room, and let me show you my purchases."

"I will, darling," he answered, pinching her cheek, "Here, Bill"--to a
servant--"carry these bundles to Miss Elsie's room."

Then, picking her up, he tossed her over his shoulder, and carried her
up-stairs as easily as though she had been a baby, she clinging to him
and laughing merrily.

"Why, papa, how strong you are," she said, as he set her down. "I
believe you can carry me as easily as I can my doll."

"To be sure; you are my doll," said he, "and a very light burden for a
man of my size and strength. But here come the bundles! what a number!
no wonder you were late in getting home."

"Oh! yes, papa see! I want to show you!" and catching up one of them,
she hastily tore it open, displaying a very gay handkerchief. "This is
a turban for Aunt Phillis; and this is a pound of tobacco for old Uncle
Jack, and a nice pipe, too. Look, mammy! won't he be pleased? And
here's some flannel for poor old Aunt Dinah, who has the rheumatism;
and that--oh! no, no, mammy! don't you open that! It's a nice shawl for
her, papa," she whispered in his ear.

"Ah!" he said, smiling; "and which is my present? You had better point
it out, lest I should stumble upon it and learn the secret too soon."

"There is none here for you, sir," she replied, looking up into his
face with an arch smile. "I would give you the bundle you carried
up-stairs, just now, but I'm afraid you would say that was not mine to
give, because it belongs to you already."

"Indeed it does, and I feel richer in that possession than all the gold
of California could make me," he said, pressing her to his heart.

She looked surpassingly lovely at that moment, her cheeks burning, and
her eyes sparkling with excitement; the dark, fur-trimmed pelisse, and
the velvet hat and plumes, setting off to advantage the whiteness of
her pure complexion and the glossy ringlets falling in rich masses on
her shoulders.

"My own papa! I'm so glad I do belong to you," she said, throwing her
arms around his neck, and laying her cheek to his for an instant. Then
springing away, she added: "But I must show you the rest of the things;
there are a good many more."

And she went on opening bundle after bundle, displaying their contents,
and telling him for whom she intended them, until at last they had all
been examined, and then she said, a little wearily, "Now, mammy, please
put them all away until to-morrow. But first take off my things and get
me ready to go downstairs."

"No, daughter," Mr. Dinsmore said in a gentle but firm tone; "you are
not ready to have them put away until the price of each has been set
down in your book."

"Oh! papa," she pleaded, "won't to-morrow do? I'm tired now, and isn't
it almost tea-time?"

"No; never put off till to-morrow what may as well be done to-day.
There is nearly an hour yet before tea, and I do not think it need
fatigue you much."

Elsie's face clouded, and the slightest approach to a pout might have
been perceived.

"I hope my little girl is not going to be naughty," he said, very
gravely.

Her face brightened in an instant. "No, papa," she answered cheerfully,
"I will be good, and do whatever you bid me."

"That is my own darling," said he, "and I will help you, and it will
not take long."

He opened her writing-desk as he spoke, and took out her account-book.

"Oh! papa," she cried in a startled tone, springing forward and taking
hold of his hand, "please, please don't look! you know you said I need
not show you until after Christmas."

"No, I will not," he replied, smiling at her eagerness; "you shall put
down the items in the book, while I write the labels, and Aunt Chloe
pins them on. Will that do?"

"Oh! that's a nice plan, papa," she said gayly, as she threw off her
hat and pelisse, and seating herself before the desk, took out her pen
and ink.

Chloe put the hat and pelisse carefully away, brought a comb and brush,
and smoothed her nursling's hair, and then began her share of the
business on hand.

Half an hour's work finished it all, and Elsie wiped her pen, and laid
it away, saying joyously, "Oh! I'm so glad it is all done."

"Papa knew best, after all, did he not?" asked her father, drawing her
to him, and patting her cheek.

"Yes, papa," she said softly; "you always know best, and I am very
sorry I was naughty."

He answered with a kiss, and, taking her hand, led her down to the
drawing-room.

After tea the young people adjourned to the nursery, where they amused
themselves with a variety of innocent games. Quite early in the
evening, and greatly to Elsie's delight, her father joined them; and,
though some of the young strangers were at first rather shy of him,
they soon found that he could enter heartily into their sports, and
before the time came to separate for the night, he had made himself
very popular with nearly all.

Time flew fast, and Elsie was very much surprised when the clock struck
eight. Half-past was her bedtime; and, as she now and then glanced up
at the dial-plate, she thought the hands had never moved so fast. As it
struck the half hour she drew near her father's side.

"Papa," she asked, "is the clock right?"

"Yes, my dear, it is," he replied, comparing it with his watch.

"And must I go to bed now?" she asked, half hoping for permission to
stay up a little longer.

"Yes, daughter; keep to rules."

Elsie looked disappointed, and several little voices urged, "Oh, do let
her stay up another hour, or at least till nine o'clock."

"No; I cannot often allow a departure from rules," he said kindly, but
firmly; "and to-morrow night Elsie will find it harder to go to bed in
season than to-night. Bid your little friends good-night, my dear, and
go at once."

Elsie obeyed, readily and cheerfully. "You, too, papa," she said,
coming to him last.

"No, darling," he answered, laying his hand caressingly on her head,
and smiling approvingly on her; "I will come for my good-night kiss
before you are asleep."

Elsie looked very glad, and went away feeling herself the happiest
little girl in the land, in spite of the annoyance of being forced to
leave the merry group in the nursery. She was just ready for bed when
her papa came in, and, taking her in his arms, folded her to his heart,
saying, "My own darling! my good, obedient little daughter!"

"Dear papa, I love you so much!" she replied, twining her arms around
his neck, "I love you all the better for never letting me have my own
way, but always making me obey and keep to rules."

"I don't doubt it, daughter," he said, "for I have often noticed that
spoiled, petted children, usually have very little love for their
parents, or indeed for any one but themselves. But I must put you in
your bed, or you will be in danger of taking cold."

He laid her down, tucked the clothes snugly about her, and pressing one
more kiss on the round, rosy cheek, left her to her slumbers.




CHAPTER FOURTEENTH


                  "You play the spaniel,
    And think with wagging of your tongue to win me."
                           --SHAKESPEARE's _Henry Eighth_.

   "These delights, if thou canst give,
    Mirth, with thee I mean to live."
                                 --MILTON's _L'Allegro_.


The young party at Roselands had now grown so large--several additions
having been made to it on Monday afternoon and evening--that a separate
table was ordered to be spread for them in the nursery, where they took
their meals together; Mrs. Brown, the housekeeper, taking the head of
the table, for the double purpose of keeping them in order, and seeing
that their wants were well supplied.

Elsie came in to breakfast, from a brisk walk with her papa, looking
fresh and rosy, and bright as the morning; quite different from some of
the little guests, who had been up far beyond their usual hours the
night before, and, having just left their beds, had come down pale and
languid in looks, and in some instances showing peevish and fretful
tempers, very trying to the patience of their attendants.

"O Elsie!" exclaimed Carry Howard, as the little girl took her place at
the table, "we were all so sorry that you had to leave us so soon last
night; we had lots of fun after you left. I think your papa might have
let you stay up a little longer; but he has promised that tonight--as
we are to have the Christmas-tree, and ever so much will be going
on--you shall stay up till half-past nine, if you like. Aren't you
glad? I'm sure I am."

"Yes, papa is very kind, and I know I feel much better for going to bed
early last night," said Elsie, cheerfully.

"Yes, indeed," remarked Mrs. Brown, "late hours and rich food are very
bad for little folks, and I notice that Miss Elsie has grown a deal
stronger and healthier-looking since her papa came home; he takes such
good care of her."

"Indeed he does," said Elsie heartily, thanking Mrs. Brown with one of
her sweetest smiles.

"What are we going to do to-day, Elsie?" asked Caroline.

"Whatever you all prefer," said Elsie. "If you like I will practice
that duet with you the first hour after breakfast, or do anything else
you wish; but the second hour I must spend with papa, and after that I
have nothing to do but entertain my company all day."

"Do you do lessons in holidays?" asked Mary Leslie, a merry, fun-loving
child, about Elsie's own age, who considered lessons an intolerable
bore, and had some vague idea that they must have been invented for the
sole purpose of tormenting children. Her blue eyes opened wide with
astonishment when Elsie quietly replied that her papa had kindly
arranged to give her an hour every morning, because he knew it would be
so much pleasanter for her than spending the whole day in play.

Elsie did keenly enjoy that quiet hour spent in studying and reciting
to her father, sitting on a low stool at his feet, or perhaps oftener
on his knee, with his arm around her waist.

She had an eager and growing thirst for knowledge, and was an apt
scholar, whom any one with the least love for the profession might have
delighted in teaching; and Mr. Dinsmore, a thorough scholar himself,
and loving knowledge for its own sake--loving also his little pupil
with all a father's fond, yearning affection--delighted in his task.

When Elsie left her father she found that the Carringtons had just
arrived. She and Lucy had not seen each other since the week the latter
had spent at Roselands early in the summer, and both felt pleased to
meet.

Mrs. Carrington gave Elsie a warm embrace, remarking that she had
grown, and was looking extremely well; better than she had ever seen
her. But no one was more delighted to meet Elsie than Herbert, and she
was very glad to learn that his health was gradually improving. He was
not, however, at all strong, even yet, and his mother thought it best
for him to lie down and rest a little after his ride. She promised to
sit by him, and the two little girls went in search of the rest of the
young folks.

Several of the older boys had gone out walking or riding, but the
younger ones, and all the little girls, were gathered in a little back
parlor, where, by Adelaide's care and forethought, a variety of
story-books, toys, and games, had been provided for their amusement.
Elsie's entrance was hailed with delight, for she was a general
favorite.

"Oh! Elsie, can't you tell us what to play?" cried Mary Leslie; "I'm so
tired," and she yawned wearily.

"Here are some dissected maps, Mary," replied Elsie, opening a drawer;
"would you not like them?"

"No, indeed, thank you; they are too much like lessons."

"Here are blocks; will you build houses?"

"Oh! I am too big for that; they are very nice for little children."

"Will you play jack-stones? here are some smooth pebbles."

"Yes, if you and Carry, and Lucy, will play with me."

"Agreed!" said the others, "let's have a game."

So, Elsie having first set the little ones to building block-houses,
supplied Harry Carrington--an older brother of Lucy's--with a book, and
two younger boys with dissected maps to arrange, the four girls sat
down in a circle on the carpet and began their game.

For a few moments all went on smoothly; but soon angry and complaining
words were heard coming from the corner where the house-building was
going on. Elsie left her game to try to make peace.

"What is the matter, Flora, dear?" she asked soothingly of a little
curly-headed girl, who was sobbing, and wiping her eyes with the corner
of her apron.

"Enna took my blocks," sobbed the child.

"Oh! Enna, won't you give them back?" said Elsie, coaxingly; "you know
Flora is a visitor, and we must be very polite to her."

"No, I won't," returned Enna, flatly; "she's got enough now."

"No, I haven't; I can't build a house with those," Flora said, with
another sob.

Elsie stood a moment looking much perplexed; then, with a brightening
face, exclaimed in her cheerful, pleasant way, "Well, never mind,
Flora, dear, I will get you my doll. Will not that do quite as
well?"--"Oh! yes, I'd rather have the doll, Elsie," the little weeper
answered eagerly, smiling through her tears.

Elsie ran out of the room and was back again almost in a moment, with
the doll in her arms.

"There, dear little Flora," she said, laying it gently on the child's
lap, "please be careful of it for I have had it a long while, and prize
it very much, because my guardian gave it to me when I was a very
little girl, and he is dead now."

"I won't break it, Elsie, indeed I won't," replied Flora, confidently;
and Elsie sat down to her game again.

A few moments afterward Mr. Horace Dinsmore passed through the room.

"Elsie," he said, as he caught sight of his little daughter, "go up to
my dressing-room."

There was evidently displeasure and reproof in his tone, and, entirely
unconscious of wrongdoing, Elsie looked up in surprise, asking, "Why,
papa?"

"Because _I bid_ you," he replied; and she silently obeyed, wondering
greatly what she had done to displease her father.

Mr. Dinsmore passed out of one door while Elsie left by the other.

The three little girls looked inquiringly into each other's faces.

"What is the matter? what has Elsie done?" asked Carry in a whisper.

"I don't know; nothing I guess," replied Lucy, indignantly. "I do
believe he's just the crossest man alive! When I was here last summer
he was all the time scolding and punishing poor Elsie for just nothing
at all."

"I think he must be very strict," said Carry; "but Elsie seems to love
him very much."

"Strict! I guess he is!" exclaimed Mary; "why, only think, girls, he
makes her do her lessons in the holidays!"

"I suspect she did not know her lesson, and has to learn it over," said
Carry, shaking her head wisely; and that was the conclusion they all
came to.

In the meantime, Elsie sat down alone in her banishment, and tried to
think what she could have done to deserve it.

It was some time before she could form any idea of its cause; but at
length it suddenly came to her recollection that once, several months
before this, her father had found her sitting on the carpet, and had
bade her get up immediately and sit on a chair or stool, saying, "Never
let me see you sitting on the floor, Elsie, when there are plenty of
seats at hand. I consider it a very unladylike and slovenly trick."

She covered her face with her hands, and sat thus for some moments,
feeling very sorry for her forgetfulness and disobedience; very
penitent on account of it; and then, kneeling down, she asked
forgiveness of God.

A full hour she had been there alone, and the time had seemed very
long, when at last the door opened and her father came in.

Elsie rose and came forward to meet him with the air of one who had
offended and knew she was in disgrace; but putting one of her little
hands in his, she looked up pleadingly into his face, asking, in a
slightly tremulous tone, "Dear papa, are you angry with me?"

"I am always displeased when you disobey me, Elsie," he replied, very
gravely, laying his other hand on her head.

"I am very sorry I was naughty, papa," she said, humbly, and casting
down her eyes, "but I had quite forgotten that you had told me not to
sit on the floor, and I could not think for a good while what it was
that I had done wrong."

"Is _that_ an excuse for disobedience, Elsie?" he asked in a tone of
grave displeasure.

"No, sir; I did not mean it so, and I am very, very sorry; dear papa,
please forgive me, and I will try never to forget again."

"I think you disobeyed in another matter," he said.

"Yes, sir, I know it was very naughty to ask why, but I think I will
remember not to do it again. Dear papa, won't you forgive me?"

He sat down and took her on his knee.

"Yes, daughter, I will," he said, in his usual kind, affectionate tone;
"I am always ready to forgive my little girl when I see that she is
sorry for a fault."

She held up her face for a kiss, which he gave.

"I wish I could always be good, papa," she said, "but I am naughty so
often."

"No," said he, "I think you have been a very good girl for quite a long
time. If you were as naughty as Arthur and Enna, I don't know what I
should do with you; whip you every day, I suspect, until I made a
better girl of you. Now you may go down to your mates; but _remember_,
you are not to play jack-stones again."

It was now lunch-time, and Elsie found the children in the nursery
engaged in eating.

Flora turned to her as she entered.

"Please, Elsie, don't be cross," she said coaxingly: "I am real sorry
your doll's broken, but it wasn't my fault Enna would try to snatch it,
and that made it fall and break its head."

Poor Elsie! this was quite a trial, and she could scarcely keep back
the tears as, following Flora's glance, she saw her valued doll lying
on the window-seat with its head broken entirely off. She said not a
word, but, hastily crossing the room, took it up and gazed mournfully
at it.

Kind Mrs. Brown, who had just finished helping her young charge all
round, followed her to the window, "Never mind, dear," she said in her
pleasant, cheery tone, patting Elsie's cheek and smoothing her hair
"I've got some excellent glue, and I think I can stick it on again and
make it almost as good as ever. So come, sit down and eat your lunch,
and don't fret any more."

"Thank you, ma'am, you are very kind," Elsie said, trying to smile, as
the kind-hearted old lady led her to the table and filled her plate
with fruit and cakes.

"These cakes are very simple, not at all rich, my dear, but quite what
your papa would approve of," she said, seeing the little girl look
doubtfully at them.

"Doesn't your papa let you eat anything good, Elsie?" asked Mary Leslie
across the table. "He must be cross."

"No, indeed, he is not, Mary, and he lets me eat everything that he
thinks is good for me," Elsie answered with some warmth.

She was seated between Caroline Howard and Lucy Carrington.

"What _did_ your papa send you away for, Elsie?" whispered the latter.

"Please don't ask me, Lucy," replied the little girl, blushing deeply.
"Papa always has a good reason for what he does, and he is just the
dearest, kindest, and best father that ever anybody had."

Elsie spoke in an eager, excited, almost angry manner, quite unusual
with her, while the hot tears came into her eyes, for she knew very
well what was Lucy's opinion of her father, and more than half
suspected that she had been making some unkind remark about him to the
others, and she was eager to remove any unfavorable impression they
might have received.

"I am sure he must love you very dearly, Elsie," remarked Caroline,
soothingly; "no one could help seeing that just by the way he looks at
you."

Elsie answered her with a pleased and grateful look; and then changed
the subject by proposing that they should all take a walk as soon as
they had finished eating, as the day was fine, and there would be
plenty of time before dinner.

The motion was carried without a dissenting voice, and in a few moments
they all set out, a very merry party, full of fun and frolic. They had
a very pleasant time, and returned barely in season to be dressed for
dinner.

They dined by themselves in the nursery, but were afterward taken down
to the drawing-room. Here Elsie found herself immediately seized upon
by a young lady, dressed in very gay and fashionable style, whom she
did not remember ever to have seen before, but who insisted on seating
the little girl on the sofa by her side, and keeping her there a long
while, loading her with caresses and flattery.

"My dear child," she said, "what lovely hair you have! so fine, and
soft, and glossy; such a beautiful color, too, and curls so
_splendidly! Natural_ ringlets, I'm sure, are they not?"

"Yes, ma'am," Elsie answered, simply, wishing from the bottom of her
heart that the lady would release her, and talk to some one else.

But the lady had no such intention.

"You are a very sweet little girl, I am sure, and I shall love you
dearly," she said, kissing her several times. "Ah! I would give
_anything_ if I had such a clear fair complexion and such rosy cheeks.
That makes you blush. Well, I like to see it; blushes are very
becoming. Oh! you needn't pretend you don't know you're handsome;
you're a perfect little beauty. Do tell me, where did you get such
splendid eyes! But I needn't ask, for I have only to look at your
father to see where they came from. Mr. Dinsmore"--to Elsie's papa, who
just then came toward them--"you ought to be very proud of this child;
she is the very image of yourself, and a perfect little beauty, too."

"Miss Stevens is pleased to flatter me," he said, bowing low; "but
flattery is not good for either grown-up children or younger ones, and
I must beg leave to decline the compliment, as I cannot see that Elsie
bears the slightest resemblance to me or any of my family. She is very
like her mother, though," he added, with a half sigh and a tender,
loving glance at his little girl, "and that is just what I would have
her. But I am forgetting my errand, Miss Stevens; I came to ask if you
will ride this afternoon, as we are getting up a small party."

"Yes, thank you, I should like it dearly, it is such a lovely day. But
how soon do you start?"

"As soon as the ladies can be ready. The horses will be at the door in
a very few moments."

"Ah! then I must go and prepare," she said, rising and sailing out of
the room.

Mr. Dinsmore took the seat she had vacated, and, passing his arm round
his little girl, said to her in an undertone, "My little daughter must
not be so foolish as to believe that people mean all they say to her;
for some persons talk in a very thoughtless way, and, without perhaps
intending to be exactly untruthful, say a great deal that they really
do not mean. And I should be sorry, indeed, to see my little girl so
spoiled by all this silly flattery as to grow up conceited and vain."

She looked at him with her own sweet innocent smile, free from the
slightest touch of vanity.

"No, papa," she said, "I do not mind, when people say such things,
because I know the Bible says, 'Favor is deceitful, and beauty is
vain;' and in another place, 'He that flattereth his neighbor spreadeth
a net for his feet.' So I will try to keep away from that lady; shall I
not, papa?"

"Whenever you can do so without rudeness, daughter;" and he moved away,
thinking to himself, "How strangely the teachings of that book seem to
preserve my child from every evil influence."

A sigh escaped him. There was lurking within his breast a vague
consciousness that her father needed such a safeguard, but had it not.

Lucy, who was standing at the window, turned quickly round.

"Come, girls," she said, "let us run out and see them off; they're
bringing up the horses. And see, there's Miss Adelaide in her
riding-dress and cap; how pretty she looks! And there's that Miss
Stevens coming out now; hateful thing! I can't bear her! Come, Elsie
and Carry!"

And she ran out, Caroline and Elsie following. Elsie, however, went no
further than the hall, where she stood still at the foot of the stairs.

"Come, Elsie," called the other two from the portico, "come out here."

"No," replied the little girl, "I cannot come without something round
me. Papa says it is too cold for me to be out in the wind to-day with
my neck and arms bare."

"Pooh! nonsense!" said Lucy, "'tain't a bit cold; _do_ come now."

"No, Lucy, I must obey my father," Elsie answered in a very pleasant
but no less decided tone.

Some one caught her round the waist and lifted her up.

"Oh! papa," she exclaimed, "I did not know you were there! I wish I was
going too; I don't like to have _you_ go without me."

"I wish you were, my pet; I always love to have you with me; but you
know it wouldn't do; you have your little guests to entertain. Good-by,
darling. Don't go out in the cold."

He kissed her, as he always did now, when leaving her even for an hour
or two, and set her down.

The little girls watched until the last of the party had disappeared
down the avenue, and then ran gayly up-stairs to Elsie's room, where
they busied themselves until tea-time in various little preparations
for the evening, such as dressing dolls, and tying up bundles of
confectionery, etc., to be hung upon the Christmas-tree.

The children had all noticed that the doors of a parlor opening into
the drawing-room had been closed since morning to all but a favored
few, who passed in and out, with an air of mystery and importance, and
generally laden with some odd-looking bundle when going in, which they
invariably left behind on coming out again, and many a whispered
consultation had been held as to what was probably going on in there.
Elsie and Carry seemed to be in the secret, but only smiled and shook
their heads wisely when questioned.

But at length tea being over, and all, both old and young, assembled as
if by common consent in the drawing-room, it began to be whispered
about that their curiosity was now on the point of being gratified.

All were immediately on the _qui vive_, and every face brightened with
mirth and expectation; and when, a moment after, the doors were thrown
open, there was a universal burst of applause.

A large Christmas-tree had been set up at the further end of the room,
and, with its myriad of lighted tapers, and its load of toys and
bonbons, interspersed with many a richer and more costly gift, made
quite a display.

"Beautiful! beautiful!" cried the children, clapping their hands and
dancing about with delight, while their elders, perhaps equally
pleased, expressed their admiration after a more staid and sober
fashion. When they thought their handiwork had been sufficiently
admired, Mrs. Dinsmore and Adelaide approached the tree and began the
pleasant task of distributing the gifts.

Everything was labelled, and each, as his or her name was called out,
stepped forward to receive the present.

No one had been forgotten; each had something, and almost every one had
several pretty presents. Mary Leslie and little Flora Arnott were made
perfectly happy with wax dolls that could open and shut their eyes;
Caroline Howard received a gold chain from her mamma, and a pretty pin
from Elsie; Lucy, a set of coral ornaments, besides several smaller
presents; and others were equally fortunate. All was mirth and
hilarity; only one clouded face to be seen, and that belonged to Enna,
who was pouting in a corner because Mary Leslie's doll was a little
larger than hers.

Elsie had already received a pretty bracelet from her Aunt Adelaide, a
needle-case from Lora, and several little gifts from her young guests,
and was just beginning to wonder what had become of her papa's promised
present, when she heard her name again, and Adelaide, turning to her
with a pleased look, slipped a most beautiful diamond ring on her
finger.

"From your papa," she said. "Go and thank him: it is well worth it."

Elsie sought him out where he stood alone in a corner, an amused
spectator of the merry scene.

"See, papa," she said, holding up her hand. "I think it very beautiful;
thank you, dear papa, thank you very much."

"Does it please you, my darling?" he asked, stooping to press a kiss on
the little upturned face, so bright and happy.

"Yes, papa, I think it is lovely! the very prettiest ring I ever saw."

"Yet I think there is something else you would have liked better; is
there not?" he asked, looking searchingly into her face.

"Dear papa, I like it _very_ much; I would rather have it than anything
else on the tree."

"Still you have not answered my question," he said, with a smile, as he
sat down and drew her to his side, adding in a playful tone, "Come, I
am not going to put up with any evasion; tell me truly if you would
have preferred something else, and if so, what it is."

Elsie blushed and looked down; then raising her eyes, and seeing with
what a tender, loving glance he was regarding her, she took courage to
say, "Yes papa, there is _one_ thing I would have liked better, and
that is your miniature."

To her surprise he looked highly pleased at her reply, and giving her
another kiss, said, "Well, darling, some day you shall have it."

"Mr. Horace Dinsmore," called Adelaide, taking some small, glittering
object from the tree.

"Another present for me?" he asked, as Walter came running with it.

He had already received several, from his father and sisters, but none
had seemed to give him half the pleasure that this did when he saw that
it was labelled, "From his little daughter."

It was only a gold pencil. The miniature--with which the artist had
succeeded so well that nothing could have been prettier except the
original herself--she had reserved to be given in another way.

"Do you like it, papa?" she asked, her face glowing with delight to see
how pleased he was.

"Yes, darling, very much; and I shall always think of my little girl
when I use it."

"Keep it in your pocket, and use it every day, won't you, papa?"

"Yes, my pet, I will; but I thought you said you had no present for me?"

"Oh! no, no, papa; I said there was none for you amongst those bundles.
I had bought this, but had given it to Aunt Adelaide to take care of,
for fear you might happen to see it."

"Ah! that was it, eh?" and he laughed and stroked her hair.

"Here, Elsie, here is your bundle of candy," said Walter, running up to
them again. "Everybody has one, and that is yours, Adelaide says."

He put it in her hand, and ran away again. Elsie looked up in her
father's face inquiringly.

"No, darling," he said, taking the paper from her hand and examining
its contents, "not to-night; to-morrow, after breakfast, you may eat
the cream-candy and the rock, but none of the others; they are colored,
and very unwholesome."

"Won't _you_ eat some, papa?" she asked with winning sweetness.

"No, dearest," he said; "for though I, too, am fond of sweet things, I
will not eat them while I refuse them to you."

"Do, papa," she urged, "it would give me pleasure to see you enjoying
it."

"No, darling, _I_ will wait until to-morrow, too."

"Then please keep it for me until to-morrow, papa, will you?"

"Yes," he said, putting it in his pocket; and then, as the gifts had
all been distributed, and the little folks were in high glee, a variety
of sports were commenced by them, in which some of their elders also
took a part; and thus the hours sped away so rapidly that Elsie was
very much surprised when her father called her to go to bed.

"Is it half-past nine already, papa?" she asked.

"It is ten, my dear child, and high time you were in bed," he said,
smiling at her look of astonishment. "I hope you have enjoyed yourself."

"Oh! _so_ much, papa. Good-night, and thank you for letting me stay up
so long."




CHAPTER FIFTEENTH


   "Ask me not why I should love her;--
      Look upon those soulful eyes!
    Look while mirth or feeling move her,
      And see there how sweetly rise
    Thoughts gay and gentle from a breast
    Which is of innocence the nest--
    Which, though each joy were from it shred,
    By truth would still be tenanted!"
                                 --HOFFMAN'S _Poems_.


It was yet dark when Elsie awoke, but, hearing the clock strike five,
she knew it was morning. She lay still a little while, and then,
slipping softly out of bed, put her feet into her slippers, threw her
warm dressing-gown around her, and feeling for a little package she had
left on her toilet-table, she secured it and stole noiselessly from the
room.

All was darkness and silence in the house, but she had no thought of
fear; and, gliding gently down the hall to her papa's door, she turned
the handle very cautiously, when, to her great delight, she found it
had been left unfastened, and yielded readily to her touch.

She entered as quietly as a little mouse, listened a moment until
satisfied from his breathing that her father was still sound asleep,
then, stepping softly across the room, she laid her package down where
he could not fail to see it as soon as daylight came and his eyes were
opened. This accomplished, she stole back again as noiselessly as she
had come.

"Who dat?" demanded Chloe, starting up in bed as Elsie reentered her
own apartment.

"It is only I; did I frighten you, mammy?" answered the little girl
with a merry laugh.

"Ki? chile, dat _you?_ what you doin' runnin' 'bout de house all in de
dark, cold night?"

"It isn't night, mammy; I heard it strike five some time ago."

"Well, den, dis chile gwine get right up an' make de fire. But jes you
creep back into de bed, darlin', 'fore you cotch your death ob cold."

"I will, mammy," Elsie said, doing as she was desired; "but please
dress me as soon as the room is warm enough, won't you?"

"Yes, darlin', kase ob course I knows you want to be up early o'
Christmas mornin'. Ki! Miss Elsie, dat's a beautiful shawl you gave
your ole mammy. I sha'n't feel de cold at all dis winter."

"I hope not, mammy; and were Aunt Phillis, and Uncle Jack, and all the
rest pleased with their presents?"

"I reckon dey was, darlin', mos' ready to go off de handle, 'tirely."

Chloe had soon built up her fire and coaxed it into a bright blaze, and
in a few moments more she pronounced the room sufficiently warm for her
nursling to get up and be dressed.

Elsie was impatient to go to her father; but, even after she had been
carefully dressed and all her morning duties attended to, it was still
so early that Chloe advised her to wait a little longer, assuring her
that it was only a very short time since John had gone in to make his
master's fire and supply him with hot water for shaving.

So the little girl sat down and tried to drown her impatience in the
pages of a new book--one of her Christmas presents. But Chloe presently
stole softly behind her chair, and, holding up high above her head some
glittering object attached to a pretty gold chain, let it gradually
descend until it rested upon the open book.

Elsie started and jumped up with an exclamation of surprise.

"Wonder if you knows dat gen'leman, darlin'?" laughed Chloe.

"Oh! it is papa," cried the little girl, catching it in her hand, "my
own dear, darling papa! oh! how good of him to give it to me!" and she
danced about the room in her delight. "It is just himself, so exactly
like him! _Isn't_ it a good likeness, mammy?" she asked, drawing near
the light to examine it more closely. "Dear, dear, _darling_ papa!" and
she kissed it again and again.

Then gently drawing her mother's miniature from her bosom, she laid
them side by side.

"My papa and mamma; are they not beautiful, mammy? both of them?" she
asked, raising her swimming eyes to the dusky face leaning over her,
and gazing with such mournful fondness at the sweet girlish
countenance, so life-like and beautiful, yet calling up thoughts of
sorrow and bereavement.

"My darling young missus!" murmured the old nurse, "my own precious
chile dat dese arms hab carried so many years, dis ole heart like to
break when-eber I tinks ob you, an' 'members how your bright young face
done gone away foreber."

The big tears were rolling fast down the sable cheeks, and dropping
like rain on Elsie's curls, while the broad bosom heaved with sobs.
"But your ole mammy's been good to your little chile dat you lef'
behind, darlin','deed she has," she went on.

"Yes, mammy, indeed, indeed you have," Elsie said, twining her arms
lovingly around her. "But don't let us cry any more, for we know that
dear mamma is very happy in heaven, and does not wish us to grieve for
her now. I shall not show you the picture any more if it makes you cry
like that," she added half playfully.

"Not always, chile," Chloe said, wiping away her tears, "but jes dis
here mornin'--Christmas mornin', when she was always so bright and
merry. It seems only yesterday she went dancin' about jes like you."

"Yes, mammy dear, but she is with the angels now--my sweet, pretty
mamma!" Elsie whispered softly, with another tender, loving look at the
picture ere she returned it to its accustomed resting-place in her
bosom.

"And now I must go to papa," she said more cheerfully, "for it is
almost breakfast time."

"Is my darling satisfied _now?_" he asked, as she ran into his arms and
was folded in a close embrace.

"Yes, papa, indeed I am; thank you a thousand times; it is all I
wanted."

"And you have given me the most acceptable present you could have
found. It is a most excellent likeness, and I am delighted with it."

"I am so glad, papa, but it was Aunt Adelaide who thought of it."

"Ah! that was very kind of her. But how does my little girl feel this
morning, after all her dissipation?"

"Oh! very well, thank you, papa."

"You will not want to say any lesson to-day, I suppose?"

"Oh! yes, if you please, papa, and it does not give you too much
trouble," she said. "It is the very pleasantest hour in the day,
except--"

"Well, except what? Ah, yes, I understand. Well, my pet, it shall be as
you wish; but come to me directly after breakfast, as I am going out
early."

Elsie had had her hour with her father, but, though he had left her and
gone out, she still lingered in his dressing-room, looking over the
next day's lesson. At length, however, she closed the book and left the
room, intending to seek her young guests, who were in the lower part of
the house.

Miss Stevens' door was open as she passed, and that lady called to her,
"Elsie, dear, you sweet little creature, come here, and see what I have
for you."

Elsie obeyed, though rather reluctantly, and Miss Stevens bidding her
sit down, went to a drawer, and took out a large paper of mixed candy,
all of the best and most expensive kinds, which she put into the little
girl's hands with one of her sweetest smiles.

It was a strong temptation to a child who had a great fondness for such
things, but Elsie had prayed from her heart that morning for strength
to resist temptation, and it was given her.

"Thank you, ma'am, you are very kind," she said gratefully, "but I
cannot take it, because papa does not approve of my eating such things.
He gave me a little this morning, but said I must not have any more for
a long time."

"Now, that is quite too bad," exclaimed Miss Stevens, "but at least
take one or two, child; that much couldn't possibly hurt you, and your
papa need never know."

Elsie gave her a look of grieved surprise.

"Oh! could you think I would do that?" she said. "But _God_ would know,
Miss Stevens; and I should know it myself, and how could I ever look my
papa in the face again after deceiving him so?"

"Really, my dear, you are making a very serious matter of a mere
trifle," laughed the lady; "why, I have deceived my father more than
fifty times, and never thought it any harm. But here is something I am
sure you can take, and indeed you must, for I bought both it and the
candy expressly for you."

She replaced the candy in the drawer as she spoke, and took from
another a splendidly-bound book which she laid in Elsie's lap, saying,
with a triumphant air, "There, my dear, what do you think of that? is
it not handsome?"

Elsie's eyes sparkled; books were her greatest treasures; but feeling
an instinctive repugnance to taking a gift from one whom she could
neither respect nor love, she made an effort to decline it, though at
the same time thanking the lady warmly for her kind intentions.

But Miss Stevens would hear of no refusal, and fairly forced it upon
her acceptance, declaring that, as she had bought it expressly for her,
she should feel extremely hurt if she did not take it.

"Then I will, Miss Stevens," said the little girl, "and I am sure you
are very kind. I love books and pictures, too, and these are lovely
engravings," she added turning over the leaves with undisguised
pleasure.

"Yes, and the stories are right pretty, too," remarked Miss Stevens.

"Yes, ma'am, they look as if they were, and I should like dearly to
read them."

"Well, dear, just sit down and read; there's nothing to hinder. I'm
sure your little friends can do without you for an hour or two. Or, if
you prefer it, take the book and enjoy it with them; it is your own,
you know, to use as you like."

"Thank you, ma'am; but, though I can look at the pictures, I must not
read the stories until I have asked papa, because he does not allow me
to read anything now without first showing it to him."

"Dear me! how very strict he is!" exclaimed Miss Stevens.

"I wonder," she thought to herself, "if he would expect to domineer
over his wife in that style?"

Elsie was slowly turning over the leaves of the book, enjoying the
pictures very much, studying them intently, but resolutely refraining
from even glancing over the printed pages. But at length she closed it,
and, looking out of the window, said, with a slight sigh, "Oh! I wish
papa would come; but I'm afraid he won't for a long while, and I do so
want to read these stories."

"Suppose you let me read one to you," suggested Miss Stevens; "that
would not be _your_ reading it, you know."

Elsie looked shocked at the proposal. "Oh! no, ma'am, thank you, I know
you mean to be kind; but I could not do it; it would be so very wrong;
quite the same, I am sure, as if I read it with my own eyes," she
answered hurriedly; and then, fearing to be tempted further, she
excused herself and went in search of her young companions.

She found them in the drawing-room.

"Wasn't it too provoking, Elsie, that those people didn't send home my
bracelet last night?" exclaimed Caroline Howard. "I have just been
telling Lucy about it. I think that it was such a shame for them to
disappoint me, for I wanted to have it on the tree."

"I am sorry you were disappointed, Carry, but perhaps it will come
to-day," Elsie answered in a sympathizing tone. And then she showed the
new book, which she still held in her hand.

They spent some time in examining it, talking about and admiring the
pictures, and then went out for a walk.

"Has papa come in yet, mammy?" was Elsie's first question on returning.

"Yes, darlin', I tink he's in the drawin'-room dis berry minute," Chloe
answered, as she took off the little girl's hat, and carefully smoothed
her hair.

"There, there! mammy, won't that do now? I'm in a little bit of a
hurry," Elsie said with a merry little laugh, as she slipped playfully
from under her nurse's hand, and ran down-stairs.

But she was doomed to disappointment for the present, for her papa was
seated on the sofa, beside Miss Stevens, talking to her; and so she
must wait a little longer. At last, however, he rose, went to the other
side of the room, and stood a moment looking out of the window.

Then Elsie hastened to take her book from a table, where she had laid
it, and going up to him, said, "Papa!"

He turned round instantly, asking in a pleasant tone, "Well, daughter,
what is it?"

She put the book into his hand, saying eagerly, "It is a Christmas gift
from Miss Stevens, papa; will you let me read it?"

He did not answer immediately, but turned over the leaves, glancing
rapidly over page after page, but not too rapidly to be able to form a
pretty correct idea of the contents.

"No, daughter," he said, handing it back to her, "you must content
yourself with looking at the pictures; they are by far the best part;
the stories are very unsuitable for a little girl of your age, and
would, indeed, be unprofitable reading for any one."

She looked a little disappointed.

"I am glad I can _trust_ my little daughter, and feel certain that she
will not disobey me," he said, smiling kindly on her, and patting her
cheek.

She answered him with a bright, happy look, full of confiding
affection, laid the book away without a murmur, and left the room--her
father's eyes following her with a fond, loving glance.

Miss Stevens, who had watched them both closely during this little
scene, bit her lips with vexation at the result of her manoeuvre.

She had come to Roselands with the fixed determination to lay siege to
Mr. Horace Dinsmore's heart, and flattering and petting his little
daughter was one of her modes of attack; but his decided disapproval of
her present, she perceived, did not augur well for the success of her
schemes. She was by no means in despair, however, for she had great
confidence in the power of her own personal attractions, being really
tolerably pretty, and considering herself a great beauty, as well as
very highly accomplished.

As Elsie ran out into the hall, she found herself suddenly caught in
Mr. Travilla's arms.

"'A merry Christmas and a happy New Year!' little Elsie," he said,
kissing her on both cheeks. "Now I have caught you figuratively and
literally, my little lady, so what are you going to give me, eh?"

"Indeed, sir, I think you've helped yourself to the only thing I have
to give at present," she answered with a merry silvery laugh.

"Nay, _give_ me one, little lady," said he, "one such hug and kiss as I
dare say your father gets half-a-dozen times in a day."

She gave it very heartily.

"Ah! I wish you were ten years older," he said as he set her down.

"If I had been, you wouldn't have got the kiss," she replied, smiling
archly.

"Now, it's my turn," he said, taking something from his pocket.

"I expected you'd catch _me_, and so thought it best to come prepared."

He took her hand, as he spoke, and placed a beautiful little gold
thimble on her finger. "There, that's to encourage you in industry."

"Thank you, sir; oh! it's a little beauty! I must run and show it to
papa. But I must not forget my politeness," she added, hastily throwing
open the drawing-room door. "Come in, Mr. Travilla."

She waited quietly until the usual greetings were exchanged, then went
up to her father and showed her new gift.

He quite entered into her pleasure, and remarked, with a glance at Miss
Stevens, "that her friends were very kind."

The lady's hopes rose. He was then pleased with her attention to his
child, even though he did not altogether approve her choice of a gift.

There was a large party to dinner that day, and the children came down
to the dessert. Miss Stevens, who had contrived to be seated next to
Mr. Dinsmore, made an effort, on the entrance of the juveniles, to have
Elsie placed on her other side; but Mr. Travilla was too quick for her,
and had his young favorite on his knee before she could gain her
attention.

The lady was disappointed, and Elsie herself only half satisfied; but
the two gentlemen, who thoroughly understood Miss Stevens and saw
through all her manoeuvres, exchanged glances of amusement and
satisfaction.

After dinner Mr. Travilla invited Elsie, Carry, Lucy, and Mary, to take
a ride in his carriage, which invitation was joyfully accepted by
all--Mr. Dinsmore giving a ready consent to Elsie's request to be
permitted to go.

They had a very merry time, for Mr. Travilla quite laid himself out for
their entertainment, and no one knew better than he how to amuse ladies
of their age.

It was nearly dark when they returned, and Elsie went at once to her
room to be dressed for the evening. But she found it unoccupied--Aunt
Chloe, as it afterward appeared, having gone down to the quarter to
carry some of the little girl's gifts to one or two who were too old
and feeble to come up to the house to receive them.

Elsie rang the bell, waited a little, and then, feeling impatient to be
dressed, ran down to the kitchen to see what had become of her nurse.

A very animated discussion was going on there, just at that moment,
between the cook and two or three of her sable companions, and the
first words that reached the child's ears, as she stood on the
threshold, were, "I tell you, you ole darkie, you dunno nuffin' 'bout
it! Massa Horace gwine marry _dat_ bit ob paint an' finery! no such
ting! Massa's got more sense."

The words were spoken in a most scornful tone, and Elsie, into whose
childish mind the possibility of her father's marrying again had never
entered, stood spellbound with astonishment.

But the conversation went on, the speakers quite unconscious of her
vicinity.

It was Pompey's voice that replied.

"Ef Marse Horace don't like her, what for they been gwine ridin' ebery
afternoon? will you tell me dat, darkies? an' don't dis niggah see him
sit beside her mornin', noon, an' night, laughin' an' talkin' at de
table an' in de parlor? an' don't she keep a kissin' little Miss Elsie,
an' callin' her pretty critter, sweet critter, an' de like?"

"_She_ ma to our sweet little Miss Elsie! Bah! I tell you, Pomp, Marse
Horace got more sense," returned the cook, indignantly.

"Aunt Chloe don't b'lieve no such stuff," put in another voice; "she
says Marse Horace _couldn't_ put such trash in her sweet young mistis's
place."

"Aunt Chloe's a berry fine woman, no doubt," observed Pomp
disdainfully, "but I reckon Marse Horace ain't gwine to infide his
matermonical intentions to her; and I consider it quite consequential
on Marster's being young and handsome that he will take another wife."

The next speaker said something about his having lived a good while
without, and though Miss Stevens _was_ setting her cap, maybe he
wouldn't be caught. But Elsie only gathered the sense of it, hardly
heard the words, and, bounding away like a frightened deer to her own
room, her little heart beating wildly with a confused sense of
suffering, she threw herself on the bed. She shed no tears, but there
was, oh! such a weight on her heart, such a terrible though vague sense
of the instability of all earthly happiness.

There Chloe found her, and wondered much what ailed her darling, what
made her so silent, and yet so restless, and caused such a deep flush
on her cheek. She feared she was feverish, her little hand was so hot
and dry; but Elsie insisted that she was quite well, and so Chloe tried
to think it was only fatigue.

She would fain have persuaded the little girl to lie still upon her bed
and rest, and let her tea be brought to her there; but Elsie answered
that she would much rather be dressed, and join her young companions in
the nursery. They, too, wondered what ailed her, she was so very quiet
and ate almost nothing at all. They asked if she was sick. She only
shook her head. "Was she tired, then?" "Yes, she believed she was," and
she leaned her head wearily on her hand.

But, indeed, most of the party seemed dull; they had gone through such
a round of pleasure and excitement, for the last two or three days,
that now a reaction was beginning, and they wanted rest, especially the
very little ones, who all retired quite early, when Elsie and her mates
joined their parents in the drawing-room.

Elsie looked eagerly around for her father, the moment she entered the
room. He was beside Miss Stevens, who was at the piano, performing a
very difficult piece of music. He was leaning over her, turning the
leaves, and apparently listening with a great deal of pleasure, for she
was really a fine musician.

Elsie felt sick at heart at the sight--although a few hours before it
would have given her no concern--and found it very difficult to listen
to and answer the remarks Mrs. Carrington was making to her about her
Christmas presents, and the nice ride they had had that afternoon.

Mr. Travilla was watching her; he had noticed, as soon as she came in,
the sad and troubled look which had come over her face, and, following
the glance of her eyes, he guessed at the cause.

He knew there was no danger of the trial that she feared, and would
have been glad to tell her so; but he felt that it was too delicate a
subject for him to venture on; it might seem too much like meddling in
Mr. Dinsmore's affairs. But he did the next best thing--got the four
little girls into a corner, and tried to entertain them with stories
and charades.

Elsie seemed interested for a time, but every now and then her eyes
would wander to the other side of the room, where her father still
stood listening to Miss Stevens' music.

At length Mr. Travilla was called away to give his opinion about some
tableaux the young ladies were arranging; and Elsie, knowing it was her
usual time for retiring, and not caring to avail herself of her
father's permission to stay up until nine o'clock, stole quietly away
to her room unobserved by any one, and feeling as if Miss Stevens had
already robbed her of her father.

She wiped away a few quiet tears, as she went, and was very silent and
sad, while her mammy was preparing her for bed. She hardly knew how to
do without her good-night kiss, but feeling as she did, it had seemed
quite impossible to ask for it while Miss Stevens was so near him.

When she knelt down to pray, she became painfully conscious that a
feeling of positive dislike to that lady had been creeping into her
heart, and she asked earnestly to be enabled to put it away. But she
prayed, also, that she might be spared the trial that she feared, if
God's will were so; and she thought surely it was because she had found
out that Miss Stevens was not good, not truthful, or sincere.

"Perhaps dear papa will come to say good-night before I am asleep," she
murmured to herself as, calmed and soothed by thus casting her burden
on the Lord, she laid her head upon her pillow.

He, however, had become interested in the subject of the tableaux, and
did not miss his little girl until the sound of the clock striking ten
reminded him of her, and he looked around expecting to see her still in
the room; but, not seeing her, he asked Lucy Carrington where she was.

"Oh!" said Lucy, "she's been gone these two hours, I should think! I
guess she must have gone to bed."

"Strange that she did not come to bid me goodnight," he exclaimed in a
low tone, more as if thinking aloud than speaking to Lucy.

He hastily left the room.

Mr. Travilla followed.

"Dinsmore," said he.

Mr. Dinsmore stopped, and Travilla, drawing him to one side, said in an
undertone, "I think my little friend is in trouble to-night."

"Ah!" he exclaimed, with a startled look, "what can it be? I did not
hear of any accident--she has not been hurt? is not sick? tell me,
Travilla, quickly, if anything ails my child."

"Nothing, nothing, Dinsmore, only you know servants will talk, and
children have ears, and eyes, too, sometimes, and I saw her watching
you to-night with a very sad expression."

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Mr. Dinsmore, growing very red and looking
extremely vexed; "I wouldn't have had such thoughts put into the
child's head for any money. Are you sure of it, Travilla?"

"I am sure she was watching you very closely tonight, and looking very
miserable."

"Poor darling!" murmured the father. "Thank you, Travilla," shaking his
friend heartily by the hand. "Good-night; I shall not be down again if
you will be so good as to excuse me to the others."

And he went up the stairs almost at a bound, and the next moment was
standing beside his sleeping child, looking anxiously down at the
little flushed cheeks and tear-swollen eyes, for, disappointed that he
did not come to bid her good-night, she had cried herself to sleep.

"Poor darling!" he murmured again, as he stooped over her and kissed
away a tear that still trembled on her eyelash.

He longed to tell her that all her fears were groundless, that none
other could ever fill her place in his heart, but he did not like to
wake her, and so, pressing another light kiss on her cheek, he left her
to dream on unconscious of his visit.
Montego Bay is a beautiful tourist town on the east coast of Florida, near Miami Beach. The town was founded in the seventeenth century by the pirates of the Caribbean Sea, who were called "buccaneers". Montego Bay became their home port, and there are still legends about hidden treasure there.

The new Montego Bay Wax Museum opened recently. It is a big tourist attraction with wax statues of famous explorers, buccaneers, sea captains, slave merchants and criminals.

Our story starts one Friday morning in October at the Martins' home. Bill and Michelle Martin lived with their parents in a nice old house.

Bill was a tall boy of sixteen, with brown hair and blue eyes.

This was his third year at Montego High School. Science was his favorite subject and he wanted to become a biologist. Basketball was his sport and he was one of the best players on the school team.

His sister Michelle was a pretty girl of fifteen with short red hair and blue eyes. She loved all kinds of modern music and had a big collection of CDs. This was her second year at Montego High, and she was a member of the Journalism Club, which published the monthly school paper.

"Hurry up, Michelle! It's late!" shouted Bill from the living room.

"I'm coming!" shouted Michelle from the top of the stairs. She ran down and took her backpack. "Bye, Mom! See you this afternoon."

"Bye, Mom!" said Bill. "There's basketball practice today. See you at dinner."
Enjoy your visit to the new museum!" said their mother. Their father worked at the airport and he was already at work.

Bill and Michelle met their good friend Nick Chan in front of the park. He was a tall Chinese-American of sixteen; he was a member of the basketball team too.

"Hi, guys!" said Nick smiling. "Let's hope this visit to the new wax museum won't be boring."

"I know," said Bill, "and we have to write a report about it for Mrs Jenkins."

The students of the second and third year were visiting the new museum that morning. It was part of their local history course with the new history teacher, Mrs Jenkins. The old teacher, Mr O'Neil, disappeared mysteriously before the summer. He was one of the favorite teachers at Montego High, because he was friendly and his classes were interesting.

One day in June Mr O'Nell went out on his boat, the North Star. He sailed east to the Bahamas and into the Bermuda Triangle. No one knew why he was going there. The Coast Guard found his boat a few days later, but he was missing - only his dog was on the boat. They took the North Star back to the Montego Bay Port and left it there.

The Miami police said Peter O'Neil was missing, because his body was never found. They opened a police file and gave it a number  The O'Nell Case. Where was Peter O'Neil? No one knew - it was a mystery.

The local newspaper The Miami Times wrote a lot of articles about the "O'Nell Case." The last one said:

Peter O'Nell, another victim of the Triangle?
TEEKA, STRETCHED AT luxurious ease in the shade of the
tropical forest, presented, unquestionably, a most alluring
picture of young, feminine loveliness.  Or at least so
thought Tarzan of the Apes, who squatted upon a low-swinging
branch in a near-by tree and looked down upon her.

Just to have seen him there, lolling upon the swaying
bough of the jungle-forest giant, his brown skin mottled
by the brilliant equatorial sunlight which percolated
through the leafy canopy of green above him, his clean-limbed
body relaxed in graceful ease, his shapely head partly
turned in contemplative absorption and his intelligent,
gray eyes dreamily devouring the object of their devotion,
you would have thought him the reincarnation of some
demigod of old.

You would not have guessed that in infancy he had suckled
at the breast of a hideous, hairy she-ape, nor that in all
his conscious past since his parents had passed away in the
little cabin by the landlocked harbor at the jungle's verge,
he had known no other associates than the sullen bulls
and the snarling cows of the tribe of Kerchak, the great ape.

Nor, could you have read the thoughts which passed through
that active, healthy brain, the longings and desires
and aspirations which the sight of Teeka inspired,
would you have been any more inclined to give credence
to the reality of the origin of the ape-man. For,
from his thoughts alone, you could never have gleaned
the truth--that he had been born to a gentle English lady
or that his sire had been an English nobleman of time-honored
lineage.

Lost to Tarzan of the Apes was the truth of his origin.
That he was John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, with a seat
in the House of Lords, he did not know, nor, knowing,
would have understood.

Yes, Teeka was indeed beautiful!

Of course Kala had been beautiful--one's mother is always
that--but Teeka was beautiful in a way all her own,
an indescribable sort of way which Tarzan was just
beginning to sense in a rather vague and hazy manner.

For years had Tarzan and Teeka been play-fellows, and Teeka
still continued to be playful while the young bulls of her own
age were rapidly becoming surly and morose.  Tarzan, if he
gave the matter much thought at all, probably reasoned
that his growing attachment for the young female could
be easily accounted for by the fact that of the former
playmates she and he alone retained any desire to frolic as of
old.

But today, as he sat gazing upon her, he found himself
noting the beauties of Teeka's form and features--something
he never had done before, since none of them had aught
to do with Teeka's ability to race nimbly through the lower
terraces of the forest in the primitive games of tag and
hide-and-go-seek which Tarzan's fertile brain evolved.
Tarzan scratched his head, running his fingers deep
into the shock of black hair which framed his shapely,
boyish face--he scratched his head and sighed.
Teeka's new-found beauty became as suddenly his despair.
He envied her the handsome coat of hair which covered
her body.  His own smooth, brown hide he hated with a
hatred born of disgust and contempt.  Years back he had
harbored a hope that some day he, too, would be clothed
in hair as were all his brothers and sisters; but of late
he had been forced to abandon the delectable dream.

Then there were Teeka's great teeth, not so large as the males,
of course, but still mighty, handsome things by comparison
with Tarzan's feeble white ones.  And her beetling brows,
and broad, flat nose, and her mouth! Tarzan had often
practiced making his mouth into a little round circle and then
puffing out his cheeks while he winked his eyes rapidly;
but he felt that he could never do it in the same cute
and irresistible way in which Teeka did it.

And as he watched her that afternoon, and wondered,
a young bull ape who had been lazily foraging for food
beneath the damp, matted carpet of decaying vegetation
at the roots of a near-by tree lumbered awkwardly
in Teeka's direction.  The other apes of the tribe
of Kerchak moved listlessly about or lolled restfully
in the midday heat of the equatorial jungle.  From time
to time one or another of them had passed close to Teeka,
and Tarzan had been uninterested.  Why was it then that his
brows contracted and his muscles tensed as he saw Taug
pause beside the young she and then squat down close to her?

Tarzan always had liked Taug.  Since childhood they
had romped together.  Side by side they had squatted
near the water, their quick, strong fingers ready to
leap forth and seize Pisah, the fish, should that wary
denizen of the cool depths dart surfaceward to the lure
of the insects Tarzan tossed upon the face of the pool.

Together they had baited Tublat and teased Numa, the lion.
Why, then, should Tarzan feel the rise of the short hairs
at the nape of his neck merely because Taug sat close to Teeka?

It is true that Taug was no longer the frolicsome ape
of yesterday.  When his snarling-muscles bared his giant
fangs no one could longer imagine that Taug was in as
playful a mood as when he and Tarzan had rolled upon
the turf in mimic battle.  The Taug of today was a huge,
sullen bull ape, somber and forbidding.  Yet he and Tarzan
never had quarreled.

For a few minutes the young ape-man watched Taug press
closer to Teeka.  He saw the rough caress of the huge
paw as it stroked the sleek shoulder of the she,
and then Tarzan of the Apes slipped catlike to the ground
and approached the two.

As he came his upper lip curled into a snarl, exposing his
fighting fangs, and a deep growl rumbled from his
cavernous chest.  Taug looked up, batting his blood-shot eyes.
Teeka half raised herself and looked at Tarzan.
Did she guess the cause of his perturbation? Who may
say? At any rate, she was feminine, and so she reached
up and scratched Taug behind one of his small, flat ears.

Tarzan saw, and in the instant that he saw, Teeka was no
longer the little playmate of an hour ago; instead she
was a wondrous thing--the most wondrous in the world--and
a possession for which Tarzan would fight to the death
against Taug or any other who dared question his right
of proprietorship.

Stooped, his muscles rigid and one great shoulder turned
toward the young bull, Tarzan of the Apes sidled nearer
and nearer.  His face was partly averted, but his keen
gray eyes never left those of Taug, and as he came,
his growls increased in depth and volume.
Taug rose upon his short legs, bristling.  His fighting
fangs were bared.  He, too, sidled, stiff-legged, and growled.

"Teeka is Tarzan's," said the ape-man, in the low gutturals
of the great anthropoids.

"Teeka is Taug's," replied the bull ape.

Thaka and Numgo and Gunto, disturbed by the growlings
of the two young bulls, looked up half apathetic,
half interested.  They were sleepy, but they sensed a fight.
It would break the monotony of the humdrum jungle life
they led.

Coiled about his shoulders was Tarzan's long grass rope,
in his hand was the hunting knife of the long-dead father
he had never known.  In Taug's little brain lay a great
respect for the shiny bit of sharp metal which the ape-boy
knew so well how to use.  With it had he slain Tublat,
his fierce foster father, and Bolgani, the gorilla.
Taug knew these things, and so he came warily, circling about
Tarzan in search of an opening.  The latter, made cautious
because of his lesser bulk and the inferiority of his
natural armament, followed similar tactics.

For a time it seemed that the altercation would
follow the way of the majority of such differences
between members of the tribe and that one of them would
finally lose interest and wander off to prosecute some
other line of endeavor.  Such might have been the end
of it had the CASUS BELLI been other than it was;
but Teeka was flattered at the attention that was being
drawn to her and by the fact that these two young bulls
were contemplating battle on her account.  Such a thing
never before had occurred in Teeka's brief life.
She had seen other bulls battling for other and older shes,
and in the depth of her wild little heart she had longed
for the day when the jungle grasses would be reddened
with the blood of mortal combat for her fair sake.

So now she squatted upon her haunches and insulted
both her admirers impartially.  She hurled taunts at
them for their cowardice, and called them vile names,
such as Histah, the snake, and Dango, the hyena.
She threatened to call Mumga to chastise them with a
stick--Mumga, who was so old that she could no longer
climb and so toothless that she was forced to confine
her diet almost exclusively to bananas and grub-worms.

The apes who were watching heard and laughed.
Taug was infuriated.  He made a sudden lunge for Tarzan,
but the ape-boy leaped nimbly to one side, eluding him,
and with the quickness of a cat wheeled and leaped back
again to close quarters.  His hunting knife was raised
above his head as he came in, and he aimed a vicious blow
at Taug's neck.  The ape wheeled to dodge the weapon
so that the keen blade struck him but a glancing blow upon
the shoulder.

The spurt of red blood brought a shrill cry of delight
from Teeka.  Ah, but this was something worth while!
She glanced about to see if others had witnessed this
evidence of her popularity.  Helen of Troy was never
one whit more proud than was Teeka at that moment.

If Teeka had not been so absorbed in her own vaingloriousness
she might have noted the rustling of leaves in the
tree above her--a rustling which was not caused by
any movement of the wind, since there was no wind.
And had she looked up she might have seen a sleek body
crouching almost directly over her and wicked yellow
eyes glaring hungrily down upon her, but Teeka did not look up.

With his wound Taug had backed off growling horribly.
Tarzan had followed him, screaming insults at him,
and menacing him with his brandishing blade.  Teeka moved
from beneath the tree in an effort to keep close to
the duelists.

The branch above Teeka bent and swayed a trifle with the
movement of the body of the watcher stretched along it.
Taug had halted now and was preparing to make a new stand.
His lips were flecked with foam, and saliva drooled from
his jowls.  He stood with head lowered and arms outstretched,
preparing for a sudden charge to close quarters.
Could he but lay his mighty hands upon that soft,
brown skin the battle would be his.  Taug considered
Tarzan's manner of fighting unfair.  He would not close.
Instead, he leaped nimbly just beyond the reach of Taug's
muscular fingers.

The ape-boy had as yet never come to a real trial
of strength with a bull ape, other than in play,
and so he was not at all sure that it would be safe to put
his muscles to the test in a life and death struggle.
Not that he was afraid, for Tarzan knew nothing of fear.
The instinct of self-preservation gave him caution--that
was all.  He took risks only when it seemed necessary,
and then he would hesitate at nothing.

His own method of fighting seemed best fitted to his build
and to his armament.  His teeth, while strong and sharp, were,
as weapons of offense, pitifully inadequate by comparison
with the mighty fighting fangs of the anthropoids.
By dancing about, just out of reach of an antagonist,
Tarzan could do infinite injury with his long,
sharp hunting knife, and at the same time escape
many of the painful and dangerous wounds which would
be sure to follow his falling into the clutches of a bull ape.

And so Taug charged and bellowed like a bull, and Tarzan
of the Apes danced lightly to this side and that,
hurling jungle billingsgate at his foe, the while he
nicked him now and again with his knife.

There were lulls in the fighting when the two would stand
panting for breath, facing each other, mustering their
wits and their forces for a new onslaught.  It was
during a pause such as this that Taug chanced to let
his eyes rove beyond his foeman.  Instantly the entire
aspect of the ape altered.  Rage left his countenance
to be supplanted by an expression of fear.

With a cry that every ape there recognized, Taug turned
and fled.  No need to question him--his warning proclaimed
the near presence of their ancient enemy.

Tarzan started to seek safety, as did the other members
of the tribe, and as he did so he heard a panther's
scream mingled with the frightened cry of a she-ape.
Taug heard, too; but he did not pause in his flight.

With the ape-boy, however, it was different.  He looked
back to see if any member of the tribe was close pressed
by the beast of prey, and the sight that met his eyes
filled them with an expression of horror.

Teeka it was who cried out in terror as she fled across
a little clearing toward the trees upon the opposite side,
for after her leaped Sheeta, the panther, in easy,
graceful bounds.  Sheeta appeared to be in no hurry.
His meat was assured, since even though the ape reached
the trees ahead of him she could not climb beyond his
clutches before he could be upon her.

Tarzan saw that Teeka must die.  He cried to Taug
and the other bulls to hasten to Teeka's assistance,
and at the same time he ran toward the pursuing beast,
taking down his rope as he came.  Tarzan knew that once
the great bulls were aroused none of the jungle,
not even Numa, the lion, was anxious to measure fangs
with them, and that if all those of the tribe who chanced
to be present today would charge, Sheeta, the great cat,
would doubtless turn tail and run for his life.

Taug heard, as did the others, but no one came to Tarzan's
assistance or Teeka's rescue, and Sheeta was rapidly
closing up the distance between himself and his prey.

The ape-boy, leaping after the panther, cried aloud to
the beast in an effort to turn it from Teeka or otherwise
distract its attention until the she-ape could gain the
safety of the higher branches where Sheeta dared not go.
He called the panther every opprobrious name that fell
to his tongue.  He dared him to stop and do battle with him;
but Sheeta only loped on after the luscious titbit now
almost within his reach.

Tarzan was not far behind and he was gaining, but the
distance was so short that he scarce hoped to overhaul
the carnivore before it had felled Teeka.  In his right hand
the boy swung his grass rope above his head as he ran.
He hated to chance a miss, for the distance was much
greater than he ever had cast before except in practice.
It was the full length of his grass rope which separated
him from Sheeta, and yet there was no other thing to do.
He could not reach the brute's side before it overhauled Teeka.
He must chance a throw.

And just as Teeka sprang for the lower limb of a great tree,
and Sheeta rose behind her in a long, sinuous leap,
the coils of the ape-boy's grass rope shot swiftly
through the air, straightening into a long thin line
as the open noose hovered for an instant above the savage
head and the snarling jaws.  Then it settled--clean
and true about the tawny neck it settled, and Tarzan,
with a quick twist of his rope-hand, drew the noose taut,
bracing himself for the shock when Sheeta should have
taken up the slack.

Just short of Teeka's glossy rump the cruel talons raked
the air as the rope tightened and Sheeta was brought to a
sudden stop--a stop that snapped the big beast over upon
his back.  Instantly Sheeta was up--with glaring eyes,
and lashing tail, and gaping jaws, from which issued
hideous cries of rage and disappointment.

He saw the ape-boy, the cause of his discomfiture,
scarce forty feet before him, and Sheeta charged.

Teeka was safe now; Tarzan saw to that by a quick glance
into the tree whose safety she had gained not an instant
too soon, and Sheeta was charging.  It was useless to risk
his life in idle and unequal combat from which no good
could come; but could he escape a battle with the enraged
cat? And if he was forced to fight, what chance had he
to survive? Tarzan was constrained to admit that his
position was aught but a desirable one.  The trees were
too far to hope to reach in time to elude the cat.
Tarzan could but stand facing that hideous charge.
In his right hand he grasped his hunting knife--a puny,
futile thing indeed by comparison with the great rows
of mighty teeth which lined Sheeta's powerful jaws,
and the sharp talons encased within his padded paws;
yet the young Lord Greystoke faced it with the same courageous
resignation with which some fearless ancestor went down
to defeat and death on Senlac Hill by Hastings.

From safety points in the trees the great apes watched,
screaming hatred at Sheeta and advice at Tarzan, for the
progenitors of man have, naturally, many human traits.
Teeka was frightened.  She screamed at the bulls to hasten
to Tarzan's assistance; but the bulls were otherwise
engaged--principally in giving advice and making faces.
Anyway, Tarzan was not a real Mangani, so why should they
risk their lives in an effort to protect him?

And now Sheeta was almost upon the lithe, naked body,
and--the body was not there.  Quick as was the great cat,
the ape-boy was quicker.  He leaped to one side almost
as the panther's talons were closing upon him, and as Sheeta
went hurtling to the ground beyond, Tarzan was racing
for the safety of the nearest tree.

The panther recovered himself almost immediately and,
wheeling, tore after his prey, the ape-boy's rope
dragging along the ground behind him.  In doubling back
after Tarzan, Sheeta had passed around a low bush.
It was a mere nothing in the path of any jungle creature
of the size and weight of Sheeta--provided it had no
trailing rope dangling behind.  But Sheeta was handicapped
by such a rope, and as he leaped once again after Tarzan
of the Apes the rope encircled the small bush, became
tangled in it and brought the panther to a sudden stop.
An instant later Tarzan was safe among the higher branches
of a small tree into which Sheeta could not follow him.

Here he perched, hurling twigs and epithets at the raging
feline beneath him.  The other members of the tribe now
took up the bombardment, using such hard-shelled fruits
and dead branches as came within their reach, until Sheeta,
goaded to frenzy and snapping at the grass rope,
finally succeeded in severing its strands.  For a moment
the panther stood glaring first at one of his tormentors
and then at another, until, with a final scream of rage,
he turned and slunk off into the tangled mazes of the jungle.

A half hour later the tribe was again upon the ground,
feeding as though naught had occurred to interrupt the somber
dullness of their lives.  Tarzan had recovered the greater
part of his rope and was busy fashioning a new noose,
while Teeka squatted close behind him, in evident token
that her choice was made.

Taug eyed them sullenly.  Once when he came close,
Teeka bared her fangs and growled at him, and Tarzan
showed his canines in an ugly snarl; but Taug did not
provoke a quarrel.  He seemed to accept after the manner
of his kind the decision of the she as an indication
that he had been vanquished in his battle for her favors.

Later in the day, his rope repaired, Tarzan took to the trees
in search of game.  More than his fellows he required meat,
and so, while they were satisfied with fruits and herbs
and beetles, which could be discovered without much effort
upon their part, Tarzan spent considerable time hunting
the game animals whose flesh alone satisfied the cravings
of his stomach and furnished sustenance and strength
to the mighty thews which, day by day, were building
beneath the soft, smooth texture of his brown hide.

Taug saw him depart, and then, quite casually, the big beast
hunted closer and closer to Teeka in his search for food.
At last he was within a few feet of her, and when he shot
a covert glance at her he saw that she was appraising him
and that there was no evidence of anger upon her face.

Taug expanded his great chest and rolled about on his
short legs, making strange growlings in his throat.
He raised his lips, baring his fangs.  My, but what great,
beautiful fangs he had! Teeka could not but notice them.
She also let her eyes rest in admiration upon Taug's beetling
brows and his short, powerful neck.  What a beautiful
creature he was indeed!

Taug, flattered by the unconcealed admiration in her eyes,
strutted about, as proud and as vain as a peacock.
Presently he began to inventory his assets, mentally,
and shortly he found himself comparing them with those
of his rival.

Taug grunted, for there was no comparison.  How could
one compare his beautiful coat with the smooth and naked
hideousness of Tarzan's bare hide? Who could see beauty
in the stingy nose of the Tarmangani after looking at
Taug's broad nostrils? And Tarzan's eyes! Hideous things,
showing white about them, and entirely unrimmed with red.
Taug knew that his own blood-shot eyes were beautiful,
for he had seen them reflected in the glassy surface of many
a drinking pool.

The bull drew nearer to Teeka, finally squatting close
against her.  When Tarzan returned from his hunting a short
time later it was to see Teeka contentedly scratching
the back of his rival.

Tarzan was disgusted.  Neither Taug nor Teeka saw him
as he swung through the trees into the glade.  He paused
a moment, looking at them; then, with a sorrowful grimace,
he turned and faded away into the labyrinth of leafy
boughs and festooned moss out of which he had come.

Tarzan wished to be as far away from the cause of his heartache
as he could.  He was suffering the first pangs of blighted love,
and he didn't quite know what was the matter with him.
He thought that he was angry with Taug, and so he couldn't
understand why it was that he had run away instead
of rushing into mortal combat with the destroyer of his
happiness.

He also thought that he was angry with Teeka, yet a
vision of her many beauties persisted in haunting him,
so that he could only see her in the light of love
as the most desirable thing in the world.

The ape-boy craved affection.  From babyhood until the
time of her death, when the poisoned arrow of Kulonga
had pierced her savage heart, Kala had represented
to the English boy the sole object of love which he had known.

In her wild, fierce way Kala had loved her adopted son,
and Tarzan had returned that love, though the outward
demonstrations of it were no greater than might have
been expected from any other beast of the jungle.
It was not until he was bereft of her that the boy
realized how deep had been his attachment for his mother,
for as such he looked upon her.

In Teeka he had seen within the past few hours a
substitute for Kala--someone to fight for and to hunt
for--someone to caress; but now his dream was shattered.
Something hurt within his breast.  He placed his hand
over his heart and wondered what had happened to him.
Vaguely he attributed his pain to Teeka.  The more he
thought of Teeka as he had last seen her, caressing Taug,
the more the thing within his breast hurt him.

Tarzan shook his head and growled; then on and on
through the jungle he swung, and the farther he traveled
and the more he thought upon his wrongs, the nearer
he approached becoming an irreclaimable misogynist.

Two days later he was still hunting alone--very morose
and very unhappy; but he was determined never to return
to the tribe.  He could not bear the thought of seeing
Taug and Teeka always together.  As he swung upon
a great limb Numa, the lion, and Sabor, the lioness,
passed beneath him, side by side, and Sabor leaned
against the lion and bit playfully at his cheek.
It was a half-caress. Tarzan sighed and hurled a nut at them.

Later he came upon several of Mbonga's black warriors.
He was upon the point of dropping his noose about the
neck of one of them, who was a little distance from
his companions, when he became interested in the thing
which occupied the savages.  They were building a cage
in the trail and covering it with leafy branches.
When they had completed their work the structure was
scarcely visible.

Tarzan wondered what the purpose of the thing might be,
and why, when they had built it, they turned away and started
back along the trail in the direction of their village.

It had been some time since Tarzan had visited the blacks
and looked down from the shelter of the great trees which
overhung their palisade upon the activities of his enemies,
from among whom had come the slayer of Kala.

Although he hated them, Tarzan derived considerable
entertainment in watching them at their daily life within
the village, and especially at their dances, when the
fires glared against their naked bodies as they leaped
and turned and twisted in mimic warfare.  It was rather
in the hope of witnessing something of the kind that he
now followed the warriors back toward their village,
but in this he was disappointed, for there was no dance
that night.

Instead, from the safe concealment of his tree, Tarzan saw
little groups seated about tiny fires discussing the events
of the day, and in the darker corners of the village he
descried isolated couples talking and laughing together,
and always one of each couple was a young man and the
other a young woman.

Tarzan cocked his head upon one side and thought,
and before he went to sleep that night, curled in the crotch
of the great tree above the village, Teeka filled his mind,
and afterward she filled his dreams--she and the young
black men laughing and talking with the young black women.

Taug, hunting alone, had wandered some distance from
the balance of the tribe.  He was making his way slowly
along an elephant path when he discovered that it was
blocked with undergrowth.  Now Taug, come into maturity,
was an evil-natured brute of an exceeding short temper.
When something thwarted him, his sole idea was to overcome
it by brute strength and ferocity, and so now when he found
his way blocked, he tore angrily into the leafy screen
and an instant later found himself within a strange lair,
his progress effectually blocked, notwithstanding his most
violent efforts to forge ahead.

Biting and striking at the barrier, Taug finally worked
himself into a frightful rage, but all to no avail;
and at last he became convinced that he must turn back.
But when he would have done so, what was his chagrin to
discover that another barrier had dropped behind him while he
fought to break down the one before him! Taug was trapped.
Until exhaustion overcame him he fought frantically for
his freedom; but all for naught.

In the morning a party of blacks set out from the village
of Mbonga in the direction of the trap they had constructed
the previous day, while among the branches of the trees above
them hovered a naked young giant filled with the curiosity
of the wild things.  Manu, the monkey, chattered and
scolded as Tarzan passed, and though he was not afraid
of the familiar figure of the ape-boy, he hugged closer
to him the little brown body of his life's companion.
Tarzan laughed as he saw it; but the laugh was followed
by a sudden clouding of his face and a deep sigh.

A little farther on, a gaily feathered bird strutted
about before the admiring eyes of his somber-hued mate.
It seemed to Tarzan that everything in the jungle was
combining to remind him that he had lost Teeka; yet every
day of his life he had seen these same things and thought
nothing of them.

When the blacks reached the trap, Taug set up a great commotion.
Seizing the bars of his prison, he shook them frantically,
and all the while he roared and growled terrifically.
The blacks were elated, for while they had not built
their trap for this hairy tree man, they were delighted
with their catch.

Tarzan pricked up his ears when he heard the voice of a
great ape and, circling quickly until he was down wind
from the trap, he sniffed at the air in search of the scent
spoor of the prisoner.  Nor was it long before there came
to those delicate nostrils the familiar odor that told
Tarzan the identity of the captive as unerringly as though
he had looked upon Taug with his eyes.  Yes, it was Taug,
and he was alone.

Tarzan grinned as he approached to discover what the blacks
would do to their prisoner.  Doubtless they would slay him
at once.  Again Tarzan grinned.  Now he could have Teeka
for his own, with none to dispute his right to her.
As he watched, he saw the black warriors strip the screen
from about the cage, fasten ropes to it and drag it away
along the trail in the direction of their village.

Tarzan watched until his rival passed out of sight,
still beating upon the bars of his prison and growling
out his anger and his threats.  Then the ape-boy turned
and swung rapidly off in search of the tribe, and Teeka.

Once, upon the journey, he surprised Sheeta and his family
in a little overgrown clearing.  The great cat lay stretched
upon the ground, while his mate, one paw across her lord's
savage face, licked at the soft white fur at his throat.

Tarzan increased his speed then until he fairly flew
through the forest, nor was it long before he came upon
the tribe.  He saw them before they saw him, for of all
the jungle creatures, none passed more quietly than Tarzan
of the Apes.  He saw Kamma and her mate feeding side
by side, their hairy bodies rubbing against each other.
And he saw Teeka feeding by herself.  Not for long
would she feed thus in loneliness, thought Tarzan,
as with a bound he landed amongst them.

There was a startled rush and a chorus of angry
and frightened snarls, for Tarzan had surprised them;
but there was more, too, than mere nervous shock to account
for the bristling neck hair which remained standing long
after the apes had discovered the identity of the newcomer.

Tarzan noticed this as he had noticed it many times
in the past--that always his sudden coming among them
left them nervous and unstrung for a considerable time,
and that they one and all found it necessary to satisfy
themselves that he was indeed Tarzan by smelling about him
a half dozen or more times before they calmed down.

Pushing through them, he made his way toward Teeka;
but as he approached her the ape drew away.

"Teeka," he said, "it is Tarzan.  You belong to Tarzan.
I have come for you."

The ape drew closer, looking him over carefully.
Finally she sniffed at him, as though to make assurance
doubly sure.

"Where is Taug?" she asked.

"The Gomangani have him," replied Tarzan.  "They will
kill him."

In the eyes of the she, Tarzan saw a wistful expression
and a troubled look of sorrow as he told her of Taug's fate;
but she came quite close and snuggled against him,
and Tarzan, Lord Greystoke, put his arm about her.

As he did so he noticed, with a start, the strange
incongruity of that smooth, brown arm against the black
and hairy coat of his lady-love. He recalled the paw of
Sheeta's mate across Sheeta's face--no incongruity there.
He thought of little Manu hugging his she, and how the one
seemed to belong to the other.  Even the proud male bird,
with his gay plumage, bore a close resemblance to his
quieter spouse, while Numa, but for his shaggy mane,
was almost a counterpart of Sabor, the lioness.
The males and the females differed, it was true;
but not with such differences as existed between Tarzan
and Teeka.

Tarzan was puzzled.  There was something wrong.  His arm
dropped from the shoulder of Teeka.  Very slowly he drew
away from her.  She looked at him with her head cocked
upon one side.  Tarzan rose to his full height and beat
upon his breast with his fists.  He raised his head toward
the heavens and opened his mouth.  From the depths of his
lungs rose the fierce, weird challenge of the victorious
bull ape.  The tribe turned curiously to eye him.
He had killed nothing, nor was there any antagonist to be
goaded to madness by the savage scream.  No, there was
no excuse for it, and they turned back to their feeding,
but with an eye upon the ape-man lest he be preparing
to suddenly run amuck.

As they watched him they saw him swing into a near-by
tree and disappear from sight.  Then they forgot him,
even Teeka.

Mbonga's black warriors, sweating beneath their strenuous task,
and resting often, made slow progress toward their village.
Always the savage beast in the primitive cage growled
and roared when they moved him.  He beat upon the bars
and slavered at the mouth.  His noise was hideous.

They had almost completed their journey and were making
their final rest before forging ahead to gain the clearing
in which lay their village.  A few more minutes would
have taken them out of the forest, and then, doubtless,
the thing would not have happened which did happen.

A silent figure moved through the trees above them.
Keen eyes inspected the cage and counted the number
of warriors.  An alert and daring brain figured upon
the chances of success when a certain plan should be put
to the test.

Tarzan watched the blacks lolling in the shade.
They were exhausted.  Already several of them slept.
He crept closer, pausing just above them.  Not a leaf rustled
before his stealthy advance.  He waited in the infinite
patience of the beast of prey.  Presently but two of the
warriors remained awake, and one of these was dozing.

Tarzan of the Apes gathered himself, and as he did so the
black who did not sleep arose and passed around to the rear
of the cage.  The ape-boy followed just above his head.
Taug was eyeing the warrior and emitting low growls.
Tarzan feared that the anthropoid would awaken the sleepers.

In a whisper which was inaudible to the ears of the Negro,
Tarzan whispered Taug's name, cautioning the ape to silence,
and Taug's growling ceased.

The black approached the rear of the cage and examined
the fastenings of the door, and as he stood there the
beast above him launched itself from the tree full upon
his back.  Steel fingers circled his throat, choking the
cry which sprang to the lips of the terrified man.
Strong teeth fastened themselves in his shoulder,
and powerful legs wound themselves about his torso.

The black in a frenzy of terror tried to dislodge
the silent thing which clung to him.  He threw himself
to the ground and rolled about; but still those mighty
fingers closed more and more tightly their deadly grip.

The man's mouth gaped wide, his swollen tongue protruded,
his eyes started from their sockets; but the relentless
fingers only increased their pressure.

Taug was a silent witness of the struggle.  In his fierce
little brain he doubtless wondered what purpose prompted
Tarzan to attack the black.  Taug had not forgotten his
recent battle with the ape-boy, nor the cause of it.
Now he saw the form of the Gomangani suddenly go limp.
There was a convulsive shiver and the man lay still.

Tarzan sprang from his prey and ran to the door of the cage.
With nimble fingers he worked rapidly at the thongs
which held the door in place.  Taug could only watch--he
could not help.  Presently Tarzan pushed the thing up
a couple of feet and Taug crawled out.  The ape would
have turned upon the sleeping blacks that he might wreak
his pent vengeance; but Tarzan would not permit it.

Instead, the ape-boy dragged the body of the black
within the cage and propped it against the side bars.
Then he lowered the door and made fast the thongs as they
had been before.

A happy smile lighted his features as he worked,
for one of his principal diversions was the baiting
of the blacks of Mbonga's village.  He could imagine
their terror when they awoke and found the dead body
of their comrade fast in the cage where they had left
the great ape safely secured but a few minutes before.

Tarzan and Taug took to the trees together, the shaggy
coat of the fierce ape brushing the sleek skin of the
English lordling as they passed through the primeval
jungle side by side.

"Go back to Teeka," said Tarzan.  "She is yours.
Tarzan does not want her."

"Tarzan has found another she?" asked Taug.

The ape-boy shrugged.

"For the Gomangani there is another Gomangani," he said;
"for Numa, the lion, there is Sabor, the lioness;
for Sheeta there is a she of his own kind; for Bara,
the deer; for Manu, the monkey; for all the beasts
and the birds of the jungle is there a mate.  Only for
Tarzan of the Apes is there none.  Taug is an ape.
Teeka is an ape.  Go back to Teeka.  Tarzan is a man.
He will go alone."


                 The Capture of Tarzan

THE BLACK WARRIORS labored in the humid heat of the jungle's
stifling shade.  With war spears they loosened the thick,
black loam and the deep layers of rotting vegetation.
With heavy-nailed fingers they scooped away the disintegrated
earth from the center of the age-old game trail.  Often they
ceased their labors to squat, resting and gossiping,
with much laughter, at the edge of the pit they were digging.

Against the boles of near-by trees leaned their long,
oval shields of thick buffalo hide, and the spears
of those who were doing the scooping.  Sweat glistened
upon their smooth, ebon skins, beneath which rolled
rounded muscles, supple in the perfection of nature's
uncontaminated health.

A reed buck, stepping warily along the trail toward water,
halted as a burst of laughter broke upon his startled ears.
For a moment he stood statuesque but for his sensitively
dilating nostrils; then he wheeled and fled noiselessly
from the terrifying presence of man.

A hundred yards away, deep in the tangle of impenetrable
jungle, Numa, the lion, raised his massive head.  Numa had
dined well until almost daybreak and it had required much
noise to awaken him.  Now he lifted his muzzle and sniffed
the air, caught the acrid scent spoor of the reed buck
and the heavy scent of man.  But Numa was well filled.
With a low, disgusted grunt he rose and slunk away.

Brilliantly plumaged birds with raucous voices darted from
tree to tree.  Little monkeys, chattering and scolding,
swung through the swaying limbs above the black warriors.
Yet they were alone, for the teeming jungle with all its
myriad life, like the swarming streets of a great metropolis,
is one of the loneliest spots in God's great universe.

But were they alone?

Above them, lightly balanced upon a leafy tree limb, a gray-eyed
youth watched with eager intentness their every move.
The fire of hate, restrained, smoldered beneath the lad's
evident desire to know the purpose of the black men's labors.
Such a one as these it was who had slain his beloved Kala.
For them there could be naught but enmity, yet he liked
well to watch them, avid as he was for greater knowledge
of the ways of man.

He saw the pit grow in depth until a great hole yawned
the width of the trail--a hole which was amply large
enough to hold at one time all of the six excavators.
Tarzan could not guess the purpose of so great a labor.
And when they cut long stakes, sharpened at their upper ends,
and set them at intervals upright in the bottom of the pit,
his wonderment but increased, nor was it satisfied with
the placing of the light cross-poles over the pit, or the
careful arrangement of leaves and earth which completely
hid from view the work the black men had performed.

When they were done they surveyed their handiwork with
evident satisfaction, and Tarzan surveyed it, too.  Even to
his practiced eye there remained scarce a vestige of evidence
that the ancient game trail had been tampered with in any way.

So absorbed was the ape-man in speculation as to
the purpose of the covered pit that he permitted
the blacks to depart in the direction of their village
without the usual baiting which had rendered him
the terror of Mbonga's people and had afforded Tarzan
both a vehicle of revenge and a source of inexhaustible delight.

Puzzle as he would, however, he could not solve the mystery
of the concealed pit, for the ways of the blacks were still
strange ways to Tarzan.  They had entered his jungle but a
short time before--the first of their kind to encroach upon
the age-old supremacy of the beasts which laired there.
To Numa, the lion, to Tantor, the elephant, to the great
apes and the lesser apes, to each and all of the myriad
creatures of this savage wild, the ways of man were new.
They had much to learn of these black, hairless creatures
that walked erect upon their hind paws--and they were
learning it slowly, and always to their sorrow.

Shortly after the blacks had departed, Tarzan swung easily
to the trail.  Sniffing suspiciously, he circled the edge
of the pit.  Squatting upon his haunches, he scraped
away a little earth to expose one of the cross-bars. He
sniffed at this, touched it, cocked his head upon one side,
and contemplated it gravely for several minutes.  Then he
carefully re-covered it, arranging the earth as neatly
as had the blacks.  This done, he swung himself back among
the branches of the trees and moved off in search of his
hairy fellows, the great apes of the tribe of Kerchak.

Once he crossed the trail of Numa, the lion, pausing for a
moment to hurl a soft fruit at the snarling face of his enemy,
and to taunt and insult him, calling him eater of carrion
and brother of Dango, the hyena.  Numa, his yellow-green
eyes round and burning with concentrated hate, glared up
at the dancing figure above him.  Low growls vibrated his
heavy jowls and his great rage transmitted to his sinuous
tail a sharp, whiplike motion; but realizing from past
experience the futility of long distance argument with the
ape-man, he turned presently and struck off into the tangled
vegetation which hid him from the view of his tormentor.
With a final scream of jungle invective and an apelike
grimace at his departing foe, Tarzan continued along his way.

Another mile and a shifting wind brought to his keen
nostrils a familiar, pungent odor close at hand,
and a moment later there loomed beneath him a huge,
gray-black bulk forging steadily along the jungle trail.
Tarzan seized and broke a small tree limb, and at the
sudden cracking sound the ponderous figure halted.
Great ears were thrown forward, and a long, supple trunk
rose quickly to wave to and fro in search of the scent
of an enemy, while two weak, little eyes peered suspiciously
and futilely about in quest of the author of the noise
which had disturbed his peaceful way.
THE GREAT STONE FACE

                             by Nathaniel Hawthorne

   ONE AFTERNOON, When the sun was going down, a mother and her little
boy sat at the door of their cottage, talking about the Great Stone
Face. They had but to lift their eyes, and there it was plainly to
be seen, though miles away, with the sunshine brightening all its
features.

   And what was the Great Stone Face?

   Embosomed amongst a family of lofty mountains, there was a valley
so spacious that it contained many thousand inhabitants. Some of these
good people dwelt in log huts, with the black forest all around
them, on the steep and difficult hill-sides. Others had their homes in
comfortable farm-houses, and cultivated the rich soil on the gentle
slopes or level surfaces of the valley. Others, again, were
congregated into populous villages, where some wild, highland rivulet,
tumbling down from its birthplace in the upper mountain region, had
been caught and tamed by human cunning, and compelled to turn the
machinery of cotton factories. The inhabitants of this valley, in
short, were numerous, and of many modes of life. But all of them,
grown people and children, had a kind of familiarity with the Great
Stone Face, although some possessed the gift of distinguishing this
grand natural phenomenon more perfectly than many of their neighbors.

   The Great Stone Face, then, was a work of Nature in her mood of
majestic playfulness, formed on the perpendicular side of a mountain
by some immense rocks, which had been thrown together in such a
position as, when viewed at a proper distance, precisely to resemble
the features of the human countenance. It seemed as if an enormous
giant, or a Titan, had sculptured his own likeness on the precipice.
There was the broad arch of the forehead, a hundred feet in height;
the nose, with its long bridge; and the vast lips, which, if they
could have spoken, would have rolled their thunder accents from one
end of the valley to the other. True it is, that if the spectator
approached too near, he lost the outline of the gigantic visage, and
could discern only a heap of ponderous and gigantic rocks, piled in
chaotic ruin one upon another. Retracing his steps, however, the
wondrous features would again be seen; and the further he withdrew
from them, the more like a human face, with all its original
divinity intact, did they appear; until, as it grew dim in the
distance, with the clouds and glorified vapor of the mountains
clustering about it, the Great Stone Face seemed positively to be
alive.

   It was a happy lot for children to grow up to manhood or
womanhood with the Great Stone Face before their eyes, for all the
features were noble, and the expression was at once grand and sweet,
as if it were the glow of a vast, warm heart, that embraced all
mankind in its affections, and had room for more. It was an
education only to look at it. According to the belief of many
people, the valley owed much of its fertility to this benign aspect
that was continually beaming over it, illuminating the clouds, and
infusing its tenderness into the sunshine.

   As we began with saying, a mother and her little boy sat at their
cottage door, gazing at the Great Stone Face, and talking about it.
The child's name was Ernest.

   "Mother, said he, while the Titanic visage smiled on him, "I wish
that it could speak, for it looks so very kindly that its voice must
needs be pleasant. If I were to see a man with such a face, I should
love him dearly."

   "If an old prophecy should come to pass," answered his mother,
"we may see a man, some time or other, with exactly such a face as
that."

   "What prophecy do you mean, dear mother?" eagerly inquired
Ernest. "Pray tell me all about it!"

   So his mother told him a story that her own mother had told to her,
when she herself was younger than little Ernest; a story, not of
things that were past, but of what was yet to come; a story,
nevertheless, so very old, that even the Indians, who formerly
inhabited this valley, had heard it from their forefathers, to whom,
as they affirmed, it had been murmured by the mountain streams, and
whispered by the wind among the tree-tops. The purport was, that, at
some future day, a child should be born hereabouts, who was destined
to become the greatest and noblest personage of his time, and whose
countenance, in manhood, should bear an exact resemblance to the Great
Stone Face. Not a few old-fashioned people, and young ones likewise,
in the ardor of their hopes, still cherished an enduring faith in this
old prophecy. But others, who had seen more of the world, had
watched and waited till they were weary, and had beheld no man with
such a face, nor any man that proved to be much greater or nobler than
his neighbors, concluded it to be nothing but an idle tale. At all
events, the great man of the prophecy had not yet appeared.

   "O, mother, dear mother!" cried Ernest, clapping his hands above
his head, I do hope that I shall live to see him!"

   His mother was an affectionate and thoughtful woman, and felt
that it was wisest not to discourage the generous hopes of her
little boy. So she only said to him, "Perhaps you may."

   And Ernest never forgot the story that his mother told him. It
was always in his mind, whenever he looked upon the Great Stone
Face. He spent his childhood in the log-cottage where he was born, and
was dutiful to his mother, and helpful to her in many things,
assisting her much with his little hands, and more with his loving
heart. In this manner, from a happy yet often pensive child, he grew
up to be a mild, quiet, unobtrusive boy, and sun-browned with labor in
the fields, but with more intelligence brightening his aspect than
is seen in many lads who have been taught at famous schools. Yet
Ernest had had no teacher, save only that the Great Stone Face
became one to him. When the toil of the day was over, he would gaze at
it for hours, until he began to imagine that those vast features
recognized him, and gave him a smile of kindness and encouragement,
responsive to his own look of veneration. We must not take upon us
to affirm that this was a mistake, although the Face may have looked
no more kindly at Ernest than at all the world besides. But the secret
was, that the boy's tender and confiding simplicity discerned what
other people could not see; and thus the love, which was meant for
all, became his peculiar portion.

   About this time, there went a rumor throughout the valley, that the
great man, foretold from ages long ago, who was to bear a
resemblance to the Great Stone Face, had appeared at last. It seems
that, many years before, a young man had migrated from the valley
and settled at a distant seaport, where, after getting together a
little money, he had set up as a shopkeeper. His name- but I could
never learn whether it was his real one, or a nickname that had
grown out of his habits and success in life- was Gathergold. Being
shrewd and active, and endowed by Providence with that inscrutable
faculty which develops itself in what the world calls luck, he
became an exceedingly rich merchant, and owner of a whole fleet of
bulky-bottomed ships. All the countries of the globe appeared to
join hands for the mere purpose of adding heap after heap to the
mountainous accumulation of this one man's wealth. The cold regions of
the north, almost within the gloom and shadow of the Arctic Circle,
sent him their tribute in the shape of furs; hot Africa sifted for him
the golden sands of her rivers, and gathered up the ivory tusks of her
great elephants out of the forests; the East came bringing him the
rich shawls, and spices, and teas, and the effulgence of diamonds, and
the gleaming purity of large pearls. The ocean, not to be behindhand
with the earth, yielded up her mighty whales, that Mr. Gathergold
might sell their oil, and make a profit on it. Be the original
commodity what it might, it was gold within his grasp. It might be
said of him, as of Midas in the fable, that whatever he touched with
his finger immediately glistened, and grew yellow, and was changed
at once into sterling metal, or, which suited him still better, into
piles of coin. And, when Mr. Gathergold had become so very rich that
it would have taken him a hundred years only to count his wealth, he
bethought himself of his native valley, and resolved to go back
thither, and end his days where he was born. With this purpose in
view, he sent a skilful architect to build him such a palace as should
be fit for a man of his vast wealth to live in.

   As I have said above, it had already been rumored in the valley
that Mr. Gathergold had turned out to be the prophetic personage so
long and vainly looked for, and that his visage was the perfect and
undeniable similitude of the Great Stone Face. People were the more
ready to believe that this must needs be the fact, when they beheld
the splendid edifice that rose, as if by enchantment, on the site of
his father's old weather-beaten farm-house. The exterior was of
marble, so dazzlingly white that it seemed as though the whole
structure might melt away in the sunshine, like those humbler ones
which Mr. Gathergold, in his young play-days, before his fingers
were gifted with the touch of transmutation, had been accustomed to
build of snow. It had a richly ornamented portico, supported by tall
pillars, beneath which was a lofty door, studded with silver knobs,
and made of a kind of variegated wood that had been brought from
beyond the sea. The windows, from the floor to the ceiling of each
stately apartment, were composed, respectively, of but one enormous
pane of glass, so transparently pure that it was said to be a finer
medium than even the vacant atmosphere. Hardly anybody had been
permitted to see the interior of this palace; but it was reported, and
with good semblance of truth, to be far more gorgeous than the
outside, insomuch that whatever was iron or brass in other houses, was
silver or gold in this; and Mr. Gathergold's bed-chamber,
especially, made such a glittering appearance that no ordinary man
would have been able to close his eyes there. But, on the other
hand, Mr. Gathergold was now so inured to wealth, that perhaps he
could not have closed his eyes unless where the gleam of it was
certain to find its way beneath his eyelids.

   In due time, the mansion was finished; next came the
upholsterers, with magnificent furniture; then, a whole troop of black
and white servants, the harbingers of Mr. Gathergold, who, in his
own majestic person was expected to arrive at sunset. Our friend
Ernest, meanwhile, had been deeply stirred by the idea that the
great man, the noble man, the man of prophecy, after so many ages of
delay, was at length to be made manifest to his native valley. He
knew, boy as he was, that there were a thousand ways in which Mr.
Gathergold, with his vast wealth, might transform himself into an
angel of beneficence, and assume a control over human affairs as
wide and benignant as the smile of the Great Stone Face. Full of faith
and hope, Ernest doubted not that what the people said was true, and
that now he was to behold the living likeness of those wondrous
features on the mountain-side. While the boy was still gazing up the
valley, and fancying, as he always did, that the Great Stone Face
returned his gaze and looked kindly at him, the rumbling of wheels was
heard, approaching swiftly along the winding road.

   "Here he comes!" cried a group of people who were assembled to
witness the arrival. "Here comes the great Mr. Gathergold!"

   A carriage, drawn by four horses, dashed round the turn of the
road. Within it, thrust partly out of the window, appeared the
physiognomy of a little old man, with a skin as yellow as if his own
Midas-hand had transmuted it. He had a low forehead, small, sharp
eyes, puckered about with innumerable wrinkles, and very thin lips,
which he made still thinner by pressing them forcibly together.

   "The very image of the Great Stone Face!" shouted the people. "Sure
enough, the old prophecy is true; and here we have the great man come,
at last!"

   And, what greatly perplexed Ernest, they seemed actually to believe
that here was the likeness which they spoke of. By the roadside
there chanced to be an old beggar-woman and two little
beggar-children, stragglers from some far-off region, who, as the
carriage rolled onward, held out their hands and lifted up their
doleful voices, most piteously beseeching charity. A yellow claw-
the very same that had clawed together so much wealth- poked itself
out of the coach-window, and dropt some copper coins upon the
ground; so that, though the great man's name seems to have been
Gathergold, he might just as suitably have been nicknamed
Scattercopper. Still, nevertheless, with an earnest shout, and
evidently with as much good faith as ever, the people bellowed, "He is
the very image of the Great Stone Face!"

   But Ernest turned sadly from the wrinkled shrewdness of that sordid
visage, and gazed up the valley, where, amid a gathering mist,
gilded by the last sunbeams, he could still distinguish those glorious
features which had impressed themselves into his soul. Their aspect
cheered him. What did the benign lips seem to say?

   "He will come! Fear not, Ernest; the man will come!"
   A YOUNG MAN, named Giovanni Guasconti, came, very long ago, from
   the more southern region of Italy, to pursue his studies at the
   University of Padua. Giovanni, who had but a scanty supply of gold
   ducats in his pocket, took lodgings in a high and gloomy chamber of an
   old edifice, which looked not unworthy to have been the palace of a
   Paduan noble, and which, in fact, exhibited over its entrance the
   armorial bearings of a family long since extinct. The young
   stranger, who was not unstudied in the great poem of his country,
   recollected that one of the ancestors of this family, and perhaps an
   occupant of this very mansion, had been pictured by Dante as a
   partaker of the immortal agonies of his Inferno. These reminiscences
   and associations, together with the tendency to heart-break natural to
   a young man for the first time out of his native sphere, caused
   Giovanni to sigh heavily, as he looked around the desolate and
   ill-furnished apartment.

      "Holy Virgin, signor," cried old dame Lisabetta, who, won by the
   youth's remarkable beauty of person, was kindly endeavoring to give
   the chamber a habitable air, "what a sigh was that to come out of a
   young man's heart! Do you find this old mansion gloomy? For the love
   of heaven, then, put your head out of the window, and you will see
   as bright sunshine as you have left in Naples."

      Guasconti mechanically did as the old woman advised, but could
   not quite agree with her that the Lombard sunshine was as cheerful
   as that of southern Italy. Such as it was, however, it fell upon a
   garden beneath the window, and expended its fostering influences on
   a variety of plants, which seemed to have been cultivated with
   exceeding care.

      "Does this garden belong to the house?" asked Giovanni.

      "Heaven forbid, signor! unless it were fruitful of better
   potherbs than any that grow there now," answered old Lisabetta. "No:
   that garden is cultivated by the own hands of Signor Giacomo
   Rappaccini, the famous Doctor, who, I warrant him, has been heard of
   as far as Naples. It is said he distils these plants into medicines
   that are as potent as a charm. Oftentimes you may see the signor
   Doctor at work, and perchance the signora his daughter, too, gathering
   the strange flowers that grow in the garden."

      The old woman had now done what she could for the aspect of the
   chamber, and, commending the young man to the protection of the
   saints, took her departure.

      Giovanni still found no better occupation than to look down into
   the garden beneath his window. From its appearance, he judged it to be
   one of those botanic gardens, which were of earlier date in Padua than
   elsewhere in Italy, or in the world. Or, not improbably, it might once
   have been the pleasure-place of an opulent family; for there was the
   ruin of a marble fountain in the centre, sculptured with rare art, but
   so wofully shattered that it was impossible to trace the original
   design from the chaos of remaining fragments. The water, however,
   continued to gush and sparkle into the sunbeams as cheerfully as ever.
   A little gurgling sound ascended to the young man's window, and made
   him feel as if a fountain were an immortal spirit, that sun its song
   unceasingly, and without heeding the vicissitudes around it; while one
   century embodied it in marble, and another scattered the perishable
   garniture on the soil. All about the pool into which the water
   subsided, grew various plants, that seemed to require a plentiful
   supply of moisture for the nourishment of gigantic leaves, and, in
   some instances, flowers gorgeously magnificent. There was one shrub in
   particular, set in a marble vase in the midst of the pool, that bore a
   profusion of purple blossoms, each of which had the lustre and
   richness of a gem; and the whole together made a show so resplendent
   that it seemed enough to illuminate the garden, even had there been no
   sunshine. Every portion of the soil was peopled with plants and herbs,
   which, if less beautiful, still bore tokens of assiduous care; as if
   all had their individual virtues, known to the scientific mind that
   fostered them. Some were placed in urns, rich with old carving, and
   others in common garden-pots; some crept serpent-like along the
   ground, or climbed on high, using whatever means of ascent was offered
   them. One plant had wreathed itself round a statue of Vertumnus, which
   was thus quite veiled and shrouded in a drapery of hanging foliage, so
   happily arranged that it might have served a sculptor for a study.

      While Giovanni stood at the window, he heard a rustling behind a
   screen of leaves, and became aware that a person was at work in the
   garden. His figure soon emerged into view, and showed itself to be
   that of no common laborer, but a tall, emaciated, sallow, and sickly
   looking man, dressed in a scholar's garb of black. He was beyond the
   middle term of life, with gray hair, a thin gray beard, and a face
   singularly marked with intellect and cultivation, but which could
   never, even in his more youthful days, have expressed much warmth of
   heart.

      Nothing could exceed the intentness with which this scientific
   gardener examined every shrub which grew in his path; it seemed as
   if he was looking into their inmost nature, making observations in
   regard to their creative essence, and discovering why one leaf grew in
   this shape, and another in that, and wherefore such and such flowers
   differed among themselves in hue and perfume. Nevertheless, in spite
   of the deep intelligence on his part, there was no approach to
   intimacy between himself and these vegetable existences. On the
   contrary, he avoided their actual touch, or the direct inhaling of
   their odors, with a caution that impressed Giovanni most disagreeably;
   for the man's demeanor was that of one walking among malignant
   influences, such as savage beasts, or deadly snakes, or evil
   spirits, which, should he allow them one moment of license, would
   wreak upon him some terrible fatality. It was strangely frightful to
   the young man's imagination, to see this air of insecurity in a person
   cultivating a garden, that most simple and innocent of human toils,
   and which had been alike the joy and labor of the unfallen parents
   of the race. Was this garden, then, the Eden of the present world? and
   this man, with such a perception of harm in what his own hands
   caused to grow, was he the Adam?

      The distrustful gardener, while plucking away the dead leaves or
   pruning the too luxuriant growth of the shrubs, defended his hands
   with a pair of thick gloves. Nor were these his only armor. When, in
   his walk through the garden, he came to the magnificent plant that
   hung its purple gems beside the marble fountain, he placed a kind of
   mask over his mouth and nostrils, as if all this beauty did but
   conceal a deadlier malice. But finding his task still too dangerous,
   he drew back, removed the mask, and called loudly, but in the infirm
   voice of a person affected with inward disease:

      "Beatrice! Beatrice!"

      "Here am I, my father! What would you?" cried a rich and youthful
   voice from the window of the opposite house; a voice as rich as a
   tropical sunset, and which made Giovanni, though he knew not why,
   think of deep hues of purple or crimson, and of perfumes heavily
   delectable- "Are you in the garden?"

      "Yes, Beatrice," answered the gardener, "and I need your help."

      Soon there emerged from under a sculptured portal the figure of a
   young girl, arrayed with as much richness of taste as the most
   splendid of the flowers, beautiful as the day, and with a bloom so
   deep and vivid that one shade more would have been too much. She
   looked redundant with life, health, and energy; all of which
   attributes were bound down and compressed, as it were, and girdled
   tensely, in their luxuriance, by her virgin zone. Yet Giovanni's fancy
   must have grown morbid, while he looked down into the garden; for
   the impression which the fair stranger made upon him was as if here
   were another flower, the human sister of those vegetable ones, as
   beautiful as they- more beautiful than the richest of them- but
   still to be touched only with a glove, nor to be approached without
   a mask. As Beatrice came down the garden-path, it was observable
   that she handled and inhaled the odor of several of the plants,
   which her father had most sedulously avoided.

      "Here, Beatrice," said the latter- "see how many needful offices
   require to be done to our chief treasure. Yet, shattered as I am, my
   life might pay the penalty of approaching it so closely as
   circumstances demand. Henceforth, I fear, this plant must be consigned
   to your sole charge."

      "And gladly will I undertake it," cried again the rich tones of the
   young lady, as she bent towards the magnificent plant, and opened
   her arms as if to embrace it. "Yes, my sister, my splendor, it shall
   be Beatrice's task to nurse and serve thee; and thou shalt reward
   her with thy kisses and perfume breath, which to her is as the
   breath of life!"

      Then, with all the tenderness in her manner that was so
   strikingly expressed in her words, she busied herself with such
   attentions as the plant seemed to require; and Giovanni, at his
   lofty window, rubbed his eyes, and almost doubted whether it were a
   girl tending her favorite flower, or one sister performing the
   duties of affection to another. The scene soon terminated. Whether
   Doctor Rappaccini had finished his labors in the garden, or that his
   watchful eye had caught the stranger's face, he now took his
   daughter's arm and retired. Night was already closing in; oppressive
   exhalations seemed to proceed from the plants, and steal upward past
   the open window; and Giovanni, closing the lattice, went to his couch,
   and dreamed of a rich flower and beautiful girl. Flower and maiden
   were different and yet the same, and fraught with some strange peril
   in either shape.

      But there is an influence in the light of morning that tends to
   rectify whatever errors of fancy, or even of judgment, we may have
   incurred during the sun's decline, or among the shadows of the
   night, or in the less wholesome glow of moonshine. Giovanni's first
   movement on starting from sleep, was to throw open the window, and
   gaze down into the garden which his dreams had made so fertile of
   mysteries. He was surprised, and a little ashamed, to find how real
   and matter-of-fact an affair it proved to be, in the first rays of the
   sun, which gilded the dew-drops that hung upon leaf and blossom,
   and, while giving a brighter beauty to each rare flower, brought
   everything within the limits of ordinary experience. The young man
   rejoiced, that, in the heart of the barren city, he had the
   privilege of overlooking this spot of lovely and luxuriant vegetation.
   It would serve, he said to himself, as a symbolic language, to keep
   him in communion with nature. Neither the sickly and thought-worn
   Doctor Giacomo Rappaccini, it is true, nor his brilliant daughter,
   were now visible; so that Giovanni could not determine how much of the
   singularity which he attributed to both, was due to their own
   qualities, and how much to his wonder-working fancy. But he was
   inclined to take a most rational view of the whole matter.

      In the course of the day, he paid his respects to Signor Pietro
   Baglioni, Professor of Medicine in the University, a physician of
   eminent repute, to whom Giovanni had brought a letter of introduction.
   The Professor was an elderly personage, apparently of genial nature,
   and habits that might almost be called jovial; he kept the young man
   to dinner, and made himself very agreeable by the freedom and
   liveliness of his conversation, especially when warmed by a flask or
   two of Tuscan wine. Giovanni, conceiving that men of science,
   inhabitants of the same city, must needs be on familiar terms with one
   another, took an opportunity to mention the name of Doctor Rappaccini.
   But the Professor did not respond with so much cordiality as he had
   anticipated.

      "Ill would it become a teacher of the divine art of medicine," said
   Professor Pietro Baglioni, in answer to a question of Giovanni, "to
   withhold due and well-considered praise of a physician so eminently
   skilled as Rappaccini. But, on the other hand, I should answer it
   but scantily to my conscience, were I to permit a worthy youth like
   yourself, Signor Giovanni, the son of an ancient friend, to imbibe
   erroneous ideas respecting a man who might hereafter chance to hold
   your life and death in his hands. The truth is, our worshipful
   Doctor Rappaccini has as much science as any member of the faculty-
   with perhaps one single exception- in Padua, or all Italy. But there
   are certain grave objections to his professional character."

      "And what are they?" asked the young man.

      "Has my friend Giovanni any disease of body or heart, that he is so
   inquisitive about physicians?" said the Professor, with a smile.
   "But as for Rappaccini, it is said of him- and I, who know the man
   well, can answer for its truth- that he cares infinitely more for
   science than for mankind. His patients are interesting to him only
   as subjects for some new experiment. He would sacrifice human life,
   his own among the rest, or whatever else was dearest to him, for the
   sake of adding so much as a grain of mustard-seed to the great heap of
   his accumulated knowledge."

      "Methinks he is an awful man, indeed," remarked Guasconti, mentally
   recalling the cold and purely intellectual aspect of Rappaccini.
   "And yet, worshipful Professor, is it not a noble spirit? Are there
   many men capable of so spiritual a love of science?"

      "God forbid," answered the Professor, somewhat testily- "at
   least, unless they take sounder views of the healing art than those
   adopted by Rappaccini. It is his theory, that all medicinal virtues
   are comprised within those substances which we term vegetable poisons.
   These he cultivates with his own hands, and is said even to have
   produced new varieties of poison, more horribly deleterious than
   Nature, without the assistance of this learned person, would ever have
   plagued the world with. That the Signor Doctor does less mischief than
   might be expected, with such dangerous substances, is undeniable.
   Now and then, it must be owned, he has effected-or seemed to effect- a
   marvellous cure. But, to tell you my private mind, Signor Giovanni, he
   should receive little credit for such instances of success- they being
   probably the work of chance- but should be held strictly accountable
   for his failures, which may justly be considered his own work."

      The youth might have taken Baglioni's opinions with many grains
   of allowance, had he known that there was a professional warfare of
   long continuance between him and Doctor Rappaccini, in which the
   latter was generally thought to have gained the advantage. If the
   reader be inclined to judge for himself, we refer him to certain
   black-letter tracts on both sides, preserved in the medical department
   of the University of Padua.

      "I know not, most learned Professor," returned Giovanni, after
   musing on what had been said of Rappaccini's exclusive zeal for
   science- "I know not how dearly this physician may love his art; but
   surely there is one object more dear to him. He has a daughter."

      "Aha!" cried the Professor with a laugh. "So now our friend
   Giovanni's secret is out. You have heard of this daughter, whom all
   the young men in Padua are wild about, though not half a dozen have
   ever had the good hap to see her face. I know little of the Signora
   Beatrice, save that Rappaccini is said to have instructed her deeply
   in his science, and that, young and beautiful as fame reports her, she
   is already qualified to fill a professor's chair. Perchance her father
   destines her for mine! Other absurd rumors there be, not worth talking
   about, or listening to. So now, Signor Giovanni, drink off your
   glass of Lacryma."

      Guasconti returned to his lodgings somewhat heated with the wine he
   had quaffed, and which caused his brain to swim with strange fantasies
   in reference to Doctor Rappaccini and the beautiful Beatrice. On his
   way, happening to pass by a florist's, he bought a fresh bouquet of
   flowers.

      Ascending to his chamber, he seated himself near the window, but
   within the shadow thrown by the depth of the wall, so that he could
   look down into the garden with little risk of being discovered. All
   beneath his eye was a solitude. The strange plants were basking in the
   sunshine, and now and then nodding gently to one another, as if in
   acknowledgment of sympathy and kindred. In the midst, by the shattered
   fountain, grew the magnificent shrub, with its purple gems
   clustering all over it; they glowed in the air, and gleamed back again
   out of the depths of the pool, which thus seemed to overflow with
   colored radiance from the rich reflection that was steeped in it. At
   first, as we have said, the garden was a solitude. Soon, however- as
   Giovanni had half hoped, half feared, would be the case- a figure
   appeared beneath the antique sculptured portal, and came down
   between the rows of plants, inhaling their various perfumes, as if she
   were one of those beings of old classic fable, that lived upon sweet
   odors. On again beholding Beatrice, the young man was even startled to
   perceive how much her beauty exceeded his recollection of it; so
   brilliant, so vivid in its character, that she glowed amid the
   sunlight, and, as Giovanni whispered to himself, positively
   illuminated the more shadowy intervals of the garden path. Her face
   being now more revealed than on the former occasion, he was struck
   by its expression of simplicity and sweetness; qualities that had
   not entered into his idea of her character, and which made him ask
   anew, what manner of mortal she might be. Nor did he fail again to
   observe, or imagine, an analogy between the beautiful girl and the
   gorgeous shrub that hung its gem-like flowers over the fountain; a
   resemblance which Beatrice seemed to have indulged a fantastic humor
   in heightening, both by the arrangement of her dress and the selection
   of its hues.

      Approaching the shrub, she threw open her arms, as with a
   passionate ardor, and drew its branches into an intimate embrace; so
   intimate, that her features were hidden in its leafy bosom, and her
   glistening ringlets all intermingled with the flowers.

      "Give me thy breath, my sister," exclaimed Beatrice; "for I am
   faint with common air! And give me this flower of thine, which I
   separate with gentlest fingers from the stem, and place it close
   beside my heart."

      With these words, the beautiful daughter of Rappaccini plucked
   one of the richest blossoms of the shrub, and was about to fasten it
   in her bosom. But now, unless Giovanni's draughts of wine had
   bewildered his senses, a singular incident occurred. A small orange
   colored reptile, of the lizard or chameleon species, chanced to be
   creeping along the path, just at the feet of Beatrice. It appeared
   to Giovanni- but, at the distance from which he gazed, he could
   scarcely have seen anything so minute- it appeared to him, however,
   that a drop or two of moisture from the broken stem of the flower
   descended upon the lizard's head. For an instant, the reptile
   contorted itself violently, and then lay motionless in the sunshine.
   Beatrice observed this remarkable phenomenon, and crossed herself,
   sadly, but without surprise; nor did she therefore hesitate to arrange
   the fatal flower in her bosom. There it blushed, and almost
   glimmered with the dazzling effect of a precious stone, adding to
   her dress and aspect the one appropriate charm, which nothing else
   in the world could have supplied. But Giovanni, out of the shadow of
   his window, bent forward and shrank back, and murmured and trembled.

      "Am I awake? Have I my senses?" said he to himself. "What is this
   being? beautiful, shall I call her? or inexpressibly terrible?"

      Beatrice now strayed carelessly through the garden, approaching
   closer beneath Giovanni's window, so that he was compelled to thrust
   his head quite out of its concealment, in order to gratify the intense
   and painful curiosity which she excited. At this moment, there came
   a beautiful insect over the garden wall; it had perhaps wandered
   through the city and found no flowers nor verdure among those
   antique haunts of men, until the heavy perfumes of Doctor Rappaccini's
   shrubs had lured it from afar. Without alighting on the flowers,
   this winged brightness seemed to be attracted by Beatrice, and
   lingered in the air and fluttered about her head. Now here it could
   not be but that Giovanni Guasconti's eyes deceived him. Be that as
   it might, he fancied that while Beatrice was gazing at the insect with
   childish delight, it grew faint and fell at her feet! its bright wings
   shivered! it was dead! from no cause that he could discern, unless
   it were the atmosphere of her breath. Again Beatrice crossed herself
   and sighed heavily, as she bent over the dead insect.

      An impulsive movement of Giovanni drew her eyes to the window.
   There she beheld the beautiful head of the young man- rather a Grecian
   than an Italian head, with fair, regular features, and a glistening of
   gold among his ringlets- gazing down upon her like a being that
   hovered in mid-air. Scarcely knowing what he did, Giovanni threw
   down the bouquet which he had hitherto held in his hand.

      "Signora," said he, "there are pure and healthful flowers. Wear
   them for the sake of Giovanni Guasconti!"

      "Thanks, Signor," replied Beatrice, with her rich voice that came
   forth as it were like a gush of music; and with a mirthful
   expression half childish and half woman-like. "I accept your gift, and
   would fain recompense it with this precious purple flower; but if I
   toss it into the air, it will not reach you. So Signor Guasconti
   must even content himself with my thanks."

      She lifted the bouquet from the ground, and then as if inwardly
   ashamed at having stepped aside from her maidenly reserve to respond
   to a stranger's greeting, passed swiftly homeward through the
   garden. But, few as the moments were, it seemed to Giovanni when she
   was on the point of vanishing beneath the sculptured portal, that
   his beautiful bouquet was already beginning to wither in her grasp. It
   was an idle thought; there could be no possibility of distinguishing a
   faded flower from a fresh one, at so great a distance.

      For many days after this incident, the young man avoided the window
   that looked into Doctor Rappaccini's garden, as if something ugly
   and monstrous would have blasted his eye-sight, had he been betrayed
   into a glance. He felt conscious of having put himself, to a certain
   extent, within the influence of an unintelligible power, by the
   communication which he had opened with Beatrice. The wisest course
   would have been, if his heart were in any real danger, to quit his
   lodgings and Padua itself, at once; the next wiser, to have accustomed
   himself, as far as possible, to the familiar and day-light view of
   Beatrice; thus bringing her rigidly and systematically within the
   limits of ordinary experience. Least of all, while avoiding her sight,
   should Giovanni have remained so near this extraordinary being, that
   the proximity and possibility even of intercourse, should give a
   kind of substance and reality to the wild vagaries which his
   imagination ran riot continually in producing. Guasconti had not a
   deep heart- or at all events, its depths were not sounded now- but
   he had a quick fancy, and an ardent southern temperament, which rose
   every instant to a higher fever-pitch. Whether or no Beatrice
   possessed those terrible attributes- that fatal breath- the affinity
   with those so beautiful and deadly flowers- which were indicated by
   what Giovanni had witnessed, she had at least instilled a fierce and
   subtle poison into his system. It was not love, although her rich
   beauty was a madness to him; nor horror, even while he fancied her
   spirit to be imbued with the same baneful essence that seemed to
   pervade her physical frame; but a wild offspring of both love and
   horror that had each parent in it, and burned like one and shivered
   like the other. Giovanni knew not what to dread; still less did he
   know what to hope; yet hope and dread kept a continual warfare in
   his breast, alternately vanquishing one another and starting up afresh
   to renew the contest. Blessed are all simple emotions, be they dark or
   bright! It is the lurid intermixture of the two that produces the
   illuminating blaze of the infernal regions.

      Sometimes he endeavored to assuage the fever of his spirit by a
   rapid walk through the streets of Padua, or beyond its gates; his
   footsteps kept time with the throbbings of his brain, so that the walk
   was apt to accelerate itself to a race. One day, he found himself
   arrested; his arm was seized by a portly personage who had turned back
   on recognizing the young man, and expended much breath in overtaking
   him.

      "Signor Giovanni! stay, my young friend!" cried he. "Have you
   forgotten me? That might well be the case, if I were as much altered
   as yourself."

      It was Baglioni, whom Giovanni had avoided, ever since their
   first meeting, from a doubt that the Professor's sagacity would look
   too deeply into his secrets. Endeavoring to recover himself, he stared
   forth wildly from his inner world into the outer one, and spoke like a
   man in a dream.

      "Yes; I am Giovanni Guasconti. You are Professor Pietro Baglioni.
   Now let me pass!"

      "Not yet- not yet, Signor Giovanni Guasconti," said the
   Professor, smiling, but at the same time scrutinizing the youth with
   an earnest glance. "What, did I grow up side by side with your father,
   and shall his son pass me like a stranger, in these old streets of
   Padua? Stand still, Signor Giovanni; for we must have a word or two
   before we part."
 I AM now growing in years, and- since I understand that
Shakespeare and Mr. Emmons are deceased- it is not impossible that I
may even die. It has occurred to me, therefore, that I may as well
retire from the field of Letters and repose upon my laurels. But I
am ambitious of signalizing my abdication of the literary sceptre by
some important bequest to posterity; and, perhaps, I cannot do a
better thing than just pen for it an account of my earlier career.
My name, indeed, has been so long and so constantly before the
public eye, that I am not only willing to admit the naturalness of the
interest which it has everywhere excited, but ready to satisfy the
extreme curiosity which it has inspired. In fact, it is no more than
the duty of him who achieves greatness to leave behind him, in his
ascent, such landmarks as may guide others to be great. I propose,
therefore, in the present paper (which I had some idea of calling
"Memoranda to Serve for the Literary History of America") to give a
detail of those important, yet feeble and tottering, first steps, by
which, at length, I attained the high road to the pinnacle of human
renown.

  Of one's very remote ancestors it is superfluous to say much. My
father, Thomas Bob, Esq., stood for many years at the summit of his
profession, which was that of a merchant-barber, in the city of
Smug. His warehouse was the resort of all the principal people of
the place, and especially of the editorial corps- a body which
inspires all about it with profound veneration and awe. For my own
part, I regarded them as gods, and drank in with avidity the rich
wit and wisdom which continuously flowed from their august mouths
during the process of what is styled "lather." My first moment of
positive inspiration must be dated from that ever-memorable epoch,
when the brilliant conductor of the "Gad-Fly," in the intervals of the
important process just mentioned, recited aloud, before a conclave
of our apprentices, an inimitable poem in honor of the "Only Genuine
Oil-of-Bob" (so called from its talented inventor, my father), and for
which effusion the editor of the "Fly" was remunerated with a regal
liberality by the firm of Thomas Bob & Company, merchant-barbers.

  The genius of the stanzas to the "Oil-of-Bob" first breathed into
me, I say, the divine afflatus. I resolved at once to become a great
man, and to commence by becoming a great poet. That very evening I
fell upon my knees at the feet of my father.

  "Father," I said, "pardon me!- but I have a soul above lather. It is
my firm intention to cut the shop. I would be an editor- I would be
a poet- I would pen stanzas to the 'Oil-of-Bob.' Pardon me and aid
me to be great!"

  "My dear Thingum," replied father, (I had been christened Thingum
after a wealthy relative so surnamed,) "My dear Thingum," he said,
raising me from my knees by the ears- "Thingum, my boy, you're a
trump, and take after your father in having a soul. You have an
immense head, too, and it must hold a great many brains. This I have
long seen, and therefore had thoughts of making you a lawyer. The
business, however, has grown ungenteel and that of a politician
don't pay. Upon the whole you judge wisely;- the trade of editor is
best:- and if you can be a poet at the same time,- as most of the
editors are, by the by, why, you will kill two birds with the one
stone. To encourage you in the beginning of things, I will allow you a
garret, pen, ink, and paper, a rhyming dictionary; and a copy of the
'Gad-Fly.' I suppose you would scarcely demand any more."

  "I would be an ungrateful villain if I did" I replied with
enthusiasm. "Your generosity is boundless. I will repay it by making
you the father of a genius."

  Thus ended my conference with the best of men, and immediately
upon its termination, I betook myself with zeal to my poetical labors;
as upon these, chiefly, I founded my hopes of ultimate elevation to
the editorial chair.

  In my first attempts at composition I found the stanzas to "The
Oil-of-Bob" rather a drawback than otherwise. Their splendor more
dazzled than enlightened me. The contemplation of their excellence
tended, naturally, to discourage me by comparison with my own
abortions; so that for a long time I labored in vain. At length
there came into my head one of those exquisitely original ideas
which now and then will permeate the brain of a man of genius. It
was this:- or, rather, thus was it carried into execution. From the
rubbish of an old book-stall, in a very remote corner of the town, I
got together several antique and altogether unknown or forgotten
volumes. The bookseller sold them to me for a song. From one of these,
which purported to be a translation of one Dantes "Inferno," I
copied with remarkable neatness a long passage about a man named
Ugolino, who had a parcel of brats. From another, which contained a
good many old plays by some person whose name I forget, I enacted in
the same manner, and with the same care, a great number of lines about
"angels" and "ministers saying grace," and "goblins damned," and
more besides of that sort. From a third, which was the composition
of some blind man or other, either a Greek or a Choctaw- I cannot be
at the pains of remembering every trifle exactly,- I took about
fifty verses beginning with "Achilles' wrath," and "grease," and
something else. From a fourth, which I recollect was also the work
of a blind man, I selected a page or two all about "hail" and "holy
light"; and, although a blind man has no business to write about
light, still the verses were sufficiently good in their way.

  Having made fair copies of these poems, I signed every one of them
"Oppodeldoc" (a fine sonorous name), and, doing each up nicely in a
separate envelope, I dispatched one to each of the four principal
Magazines, with a request for speedy insertion and prompt pay. The
result of this well-conceived plan, however, (the success of which
would have saved me much trouble in after-life,) served to convince me
that some editors are not to be bamboozled, and gave the coup-de-grace
(as they say in France) to my nascent hopes (as they say in the city
of the transcendentals).

  The fact is, that each and every one of the Magazines in question
gave Mr. "Oppodeldoc" a complete using-up, in the "Monthly Notices
to Correspondents." The "Hum-Drum" gave him a dressing after this
fashion:

  "'Oppodeldoc' (whoever he is) has sent us a long tirade concerning a
bedlamite whom he styles 'Ugolino,' had a great many children that
should have been all whipped and sent to bed without their suppers.
The whole affair is exceedingly tame- not to say flat. 'Oppodeldoc'
(whoever he is) is entirely devoid of imagination- and imagination, in
our humble opinion, is not only the soul of Poesy, but also its very
heart. 'Oppodeldoc' (whoever he is) has the audacity to demand of
us, for his twattle, a 'speedy insertion and prompt pay.' We neither
insert nor purchase any stuff of the sort. There can be no doubt,
however, that he would meet with a ready sale for all the balderdash
he can scribble, at the office of either the 'Rowdy-Dow,' the
'Lollipop,' or the 'Goosetherumfoodle.'

  All this, it must be acknowledged, was very severe upon
"Oppodeldoc,"- but the unkindest cut was putting the word Poesy in
small caps. In those five pre-eminent letters what a world of
bitterness is there not involved!

  But "Oppodeldoc" was punished with equal severity in the "Rowdy
Dow," which spoke thus:

  "We have received a most singular and insolent communication from
a person (whoever he is) signing himself 'Oppodeldoc,'- thus
desecrating the greatness of the illustrious Roman emperor so named.
Accompanying the letter of 'Oppodeldoc' (whoever he is) we find sundry
lines of most disgusting and unmeaning rant about 'angels and
ministers of grace,'- rant such as no madman short of a Nat Lee, or an
'Oppodeldoc,' could possibly perpetrate. And for this trash of
trash, we are modestly requested to 'pay promptly.' No, sir- no! We
pay for nothing of that sort. Apply to the 'Hum-Drum,' the 'Lollipop,'
or the 'Goosetherumfoodle.' These periodicals will undoubtedly
accept any literary offal you may send them- and as undoubtedly
promise to pay for it."

  This was bitter indeed upon poor "Oppodeldoc"; but, in this
instance, the weight of the satire falls upon the "Hum-Drum," the
"Lollipop," and the "Goosetherumfoodle," who are pungently styled
"periodicals"- in Italics, too- a thing that must have cut them to the
heart.

  Scarcely less savage was the "Lollipop," which thus discoursed:

  "Some individual, who rejoices in the appellation 'Oppodeldoc,'
(to what low uses are the names of the illustrious dead too often
applied!) has enclosed us some fifty or sixty verses commencing
after this fashion:

       'Achilles' wrath, to Greece the direful spring

        Of woes unnumbered, &c., &c., &c, &c.'

  "'Oppodeldoc?' (whoever he is) is respectfully informed that there
is not a printer's devil in our office who is not in the daily habit
of composing better lines. Those of 'Oppodeldoc' will not scan.
'Oppodeldoc' should learn to count. But why he should have conceived
the idea that we (of all others, we!) would disgrace our pages with
his ineffable nonsense is utterly beyond comprehension. Why, the
absurd twattle is scarcely good enough for the 'Hum-Drum,' the
'Rowdy-Dow,' the 'Goosetherumfoodle,'- things that are in the practice
of publishing 'Mother Gooses Melodies' as original lyrics. And
'Oppodeldoc' (whoever he is) has even the assurance to demand pay
for this drivel. Does 'Oppodeldoc' (whoever he is) know- is he aware
that we could not be paid to insert it?"

  As I perused this I felt myself growing gradually smaller and
smaller, and when I came to the point at which the editor sneered at
the poem as "verses," there was little more than an ounce of me
left. As for "Oppodeldoc," I began to experience compassion for the
poor fellow. But the "Goosetherumfoodle" showed, if possible, less
mercy than the "Lollipop." It was the "Goosetherumfoodle" that said-

  "A wretched poetaster, who signs himself 'Oppodeldoc,' is silly
enough to fancy that we will print and pay for a medley of
incoherent and ungrammatical bombast which he has transmitted to us,
and which commences with the following most intelligible line:-

          'Hail Holy Light! Offspring of Heaven, first born.'

  "We say, 'most intelligible.' 'Oppodeldoc' (whoever he is) will be
kind enough to tell us, perhaps, how 'hail' can be 'holy light.' We
always regarded it as frozen rain. Will he inform us, also, how frozen
rain can be, at one and the same time, both 'holy light' (whatever
that is) and an 'off-spring'?- which latter term (if we understand
anything about English) is only employed, with propriety, in reference
to small babies of about six weeks old. But it is preposterous to
descant upon such absurdity- although 'Oppodeldoc' (whoever he is) has
the unparalled effrontery to suppose that we will not only 'insert'
his ignorant ravings, but (absolutely) pay for them?

  "Now this is fine- it is rich!- and we have half a mind to punish
this young scribbler for his egotism by really publishing his effusion
verbatim et literatim, as he has written it. We could inflict no
punishment so severe, and we would inflict it, but for the boredom
which we should cause our readers in so doing.

  "Let 'Oppodeldoc' (whoever he is) send any future composition of
like character to the 'Hum-Drum,' the 'Lollipop,' or the 'Rowdy-Dow:
They will 'insert' it. They 'insert' every month just such stuff. Send
it to them. WE are not to be insulted with impunity."

  This made an end of me, and as for the "Hum-Drum," the
"Rowdy-Dow," and the "Lollipop," I never could comprehend how they
survived it. The putting them in the smallest possible minion (that
was the rub- thereby insinuating their lowness- their baseness,) while
WE stood looking upon them in gigantic capitals!- oh it was too
bitter!- it was wormwood- it was gall. Had I been either of these
periodicals I would have spared no pains to have the
"Goosetherumfoodle" prosecuted. It might have been done under the
Act for the "Prevention of Cruelty to Animals." for Oppodeldoc
(whoever he was), I had by this time lost all patience with the
fellow, and sympathized with him no longer. He was a fool, beyond
doubt, (whoever he was,) and got not a kick more than he deserved.

  The result of my experiment with the old books convinced me, in
the first place, that "honesty is the best policy," and, in the
second, that if I could not write better than Mr. Dante, and the two
blind men, and the rest of the old set, it would, at least, be a
difficult matter to write worse. I took heart, therefore, and
determined to prosecute the "entirely original" (as they say on the
covers of the magazines), at whatever cost of study and pains. I again
placed before my eyes, as a model, the brilliant stanzas on "The
Oil-of-Bob" by the editor of the "Gad-Fly" and resolved to construct
an ode on the same sublime theme, in rivalry of what had already
been done.

  With my first line I had no material difficulty. It ran thus:

        "To pen an Ode upon the 'Oil-of-Bob.'"
THIS is an occasion peculiarly meet for the digging up of pleasant
reminiscences concerning literary folk; therefore I will drop
lightly into history myself. Standing here on the shore of the
Atlantic and contemplating certain of its largest literary billows,
I am reminded of a thing which happened to me thirteen years ago, when
I had just succeeded in stirring up a little Nevadian literary
puddle myself, whose spume-flakes were beginning to blow thinly
Californiaward. I started an inspection tramp through the southern
mines of California. I was callow and conceited, and I resolved to try
the virtue of my nom de guerre.

  I very soon had an opportunity. I knocked at a miner's lonely log
cabin in the foot-hills of the Sierras just at nightfall. It was
snowing at the time. A jaded, melancholy man of fifty, barefooted,
opened the door to me. When he heard my nom de guerre he looked more
dejected than before. He let me in- pretty reluctantly, I thought- and
after the customary bacon and beans, black coffee and hot whiskey, I
took a pipe. This sorrowful man had not said three words up to this
time. Now he spoke up and said, in the voice of one who is secretly
suffering, "You're the fourth- I'm going to move." "The fourth
what?" said I. "The fourth littery man that has been here in
twenty-four hours- I'm going to move." "You don't tell me!" said I;
"who were the others?" "Mr. Longfellow, Mr. Emerson, and Mr. Oliver
Wendell Holmes- consound the lot!"

  You can easily believe I was interested. I supplicated- three hot
whiskeys did the rest- and finally the melancholy miner began. Said
he:

  "They came here just at dark yesterday evening, and I let them in of
course. Said they were going to the Yosemite. They were a rough lot,
but that's nothing; everybody looks rough that travels afoot. Mr.
Emerson was a seedy little bit of a chap, red-headed. Mr. Holmes was
as fat as a balloon; he weighed as much as three hundred, and had
double chins all the way down to his stomach. Mr. Longfellow was built
like a prize-fighter. His head was cropped and bristly, like as if
he had a wig made of hair-brushes. His nose lay straight down his
face, like a finger with the end joint tilted up. They had been
drinking, I could see that. And what queer talk they used! Mr.
Holmes inspected this cabin, then he took me by the buttonhole, and
says he:

         "'Through the deep caves of thought

           I hear a voice that sings,

           Build thee more stately mansions,

           O my soul!'

  "Says I, 'I can't afford it, Mr. Holmes, and moreover I don't want
to.' Blamed if I liked it pretty well, either, coming from a stranger,
that way. However, I started to get out my bacon and beans, when Mr.
Emerson came and looked on awhile, and then he takes me aside by the
buttonhole and says:

         "'Give me agates for my meat;

           Give me cantharids to eat;

           From air and ocean bring me foods,

           From all zones and altitudes.'

  "Says I, 'Mr. Emerson, if you'll excuse me, this ain't no hotel.'
You see it sort of riled me- I warn't used to the ways of littery
swells. But I went on a-sweating over my work, and next comes Mr.
Longfellow and buttonholes me, and interrupts me. Says he:

         "'Honor be to Mudjekeewis!

           You shall hear how Pau-Puk-Keewis-'

  "But I broke in, and says I, 'Beg your pardon, Mr. Longfellow, if
you'll be so kind as to hold your yawp for about five minutes and
let me get this grub ready, you'll do me proud.' Well, sir, after
they'd filled up I set out the jug. Mr. Holmes looks at it, and then
he fires up all of a sudden and yells:

         "'Flash out a stream of blood-red wine!

           For I would drink to other days.'

  "By George, I was getting kind of worked up. I don't deny it, I
was getting kind of worked up. I turns to Mr. Holmes, and says I,
'Looky here, my fat friend, I'm a-running this shanty, and if the
court knows herself, you'll take whiskey straight or you'll go dry.'
Them's the very words I said to him. Now I don't want to sass such
famous littery people, but you see they kind of forced me. There ain't
nothing unreasonable 'bout me; I don't mind a passel of guests
a-treadin' on my tail three or four times, but when it comes to
standing on it it's different, 'and if the court knows herself,' I
says, 'you'll take whiskey straight or you'll go dry.' Well, between
drinks they'd swell around the cabin and strike attitudes and spout;
and pretty soon they got out a greasy old deck and went to playing
euchre at ten cents a corner- on trust. I began to notice some
pretty suspicious things. Mr. Emerson dealt, looked at his hand, shook
his head, says:

         "'I am the doubter and the doubt-'

and ca'mly bunched the hands and went to shuffling for a new layout.
Says he:

         "'They reckon ill who leave me out;

           They know not well the subtle ways I keep.

           I pass and deal again!'

  "Hang'd if he didn't go ahead and do it, too! Oh, he was a cool one!
Well, in about a minute things were running pretty tight, but all of a
sudden I see by Mr. Emerson's eye he judged he had 'em. He had already
corralled two tricks, and each of the others one. So now he kind of
lifts a little in his chair and says:

         "'I tire of globes and aces!-

           Too long the game is played!'

- and down he fetched a right bower. Mr. Longfellow smiles as sweet as
pie and says:

         "'Thanks, thanks to thee, my worthy friend,

           For the lesson thou hast taught,'

  - and blamed if he didn't down with another right bower! Emerson
claps his hand on his bowie, Longfellow claps his on his revolver, and
I went under a bunk. There was going to be trouble; but that monstrous
Holmes rose up, wobbling his double chins, and says he, 'Order,
gentlemen; the first man that draws, I'll lay down on him and
smother him!' All quiet on the Potomac, you bet!

  "They were pretty how-come-you-so by now, and they begun to blow.
Emerson says, 'The nobbiest thing I ever wrote was "Barbara
Frietchie."' Says Longfellow, 'It don't begin with my "Biglow
Papers."' Says Holmes, 'My "Thanatopis" lays over 'em both.' They
mighty near ended in a fight. Then they wished they had some more
company- and Mr. Emerson pointed to me and says:

         "'Is yonder squalid peasant all

           That this proud nursery could breed?'

  "He was a-whetting his bowie on his boot- so I let it pass. Well,
sir, next they took it into their heads that they would like some
music; so they made me stand up and sing "When Johnny Comes Marching
Home" till I dropped- at thirteen minutes past four this morning.
That's what I've been through, my friend. When I woke at seven, they
were leaving, thank goodness, and Mr. Longfellow had my only boots on,
and his'n under his arm. Says I, 'Hold on, there, Evangeline, what are
you going to do with them?' He says, 'Going to make tracks with 'em;
because:

         "'Lives of great men all remind us

             We can make our lives sublime;

           And, departing, leave behind us

             Footprints on the sands of time.'

As I said, Mr. Twain, you are the fourth in twenty-four hours- and I'm
going to move; I ain't suited to a littery atmosphere."

  I said to the miner, "Why, my dear sir, these were not the
gracious singers to whom we and the world pay loving reverence and
homage; these were impostors."

  The miner investigated me with a calm eye for a while; then said he,
"Ah! impostors, were they? Are you?"

  I did not pursue the subject, and since then I have not travelled on
my nom de guerre enough to hurt. Such was the reminiscence I was moved
to contribute, Mr. Chairman. In my enthusiasm I may have exaggerated
the details a little, but you will easily forgive me that fault, since
I believe it is the first time I have ever deflected from
perpendicular fact on an occasion like this.

             From Mark Twain's Autobiography.

                                                 January  1906.

  Answer to a letter received this morning:

  DEAR MRS. H.,- I am forever your debtor for reminding me of that
curious passage in my life. During the first year or two after it
happened, I could not bear to think of it. My pain and shame were so
intense, and my sense of having been an imbecile so settled,
established and confirmed, that I drove the episode entirely from my
mind- and so all these twenty-eight or twenty-nine years I have
lived in the conviction that my performance of that time was coarse,
vulgar, and destitute of humor. But your suggestion that you and
your family found humor in it twenty-eight years ago moved me to
look into the matter. So I commissioned a Boston typewriter to delve
among the Boston papers of that bygone time and send me a copy of it.

  It came this morning, and if there is any vulgarity about it I am
not able to discover it. If it isn't innocently and ridiculously
funny, I am no judge. I will see to it that you get a copy.

  What I have said to Mrs. H. is true. I did suffer during a year or
two from the deep humiliations of that episode. But at last, in
1888, in Venice, my wife and I came across Mr. and Mrs. A. P. C., of
Concord, Massachusetts, and a friendship began then of the sort
which nothing but death terminates. The C.'s were very bright people
and in every way charming and companionable. We were together a
month or two in Venice and several months in Rome, afterward, and
one day that lamented break of mine was mentioned. And when I was on
the point of lathering those people for bringing it to my mind when
I had gotten the memory of it almost squelched, I perceived with joy
that the C.'s were indignant about the way that my performance had
been received in Boston. They poured out their opinions most freely
and frankly about the frosty attitude of the people who were present
at that performance, and about the Boston newspapers for the
position they had taken in regard to the matter. That position was
that I had been irreverent beyond belief, beyond imagination. Very
well; I had accepted that as a fact for a year or two, and had been
thoroughly miserable about it whenever I thought of it- which was
not frequently, if I could help it. Whenever I thought of it I
wondered how I ever could have been inspired to do so unholy a
thing. Well, the C.'s comforted me, but they did not persuade me to
continue to think about the unhappy episode. I resisted that. I
tried to get it out of my mind, and let it die, and I succeeded. Until
Mrs. H.'s letter came, it had been a good twenty-five years since I
had thought of that matter; and when she said that the thing was funny
I wondered if possibly she might be right. At any rate, my curiosity
was aroused, and I wrote to Boston and got the whole thing copied,
as above set forth.

  I vaguely remember some of the details of that gathering- dimly I
can see a hundred people no, perhaps fifty- shadowy figures sitting at
tables feeding, ghosts now to me, and nameless forevermore. I don't
know who they were, but I can very distinctly see, seated at the grand
table and facing the rest of us, Mr. Emerson, supernaturally grave,
unsmiling? Mr. Whittier, grave, lovely, his beautiful spirit shining
out of his face; Mr. Longfellow, with his silken white hair and his
benignant face; Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, flashing smiles and
affection and all good-fellowship everywhere like a rose-diamond whose
facets are being turned toward the light first one way and then
another- a charming man, and always fascinating, whether he was
talking or whether he was sitting still (what he would call still, but
what would be more or less motion to other people). I can see those
figures with entire distinctness across this abyss of time.

  One other feature is clear- Willie Winter (for these past thousand
years dramatic editor of the New York Tribune, and still occupying
that high post in his old age) was there. He was much younger then
than he is now, and he showed it. It was always a pleasure to me to
see Willie Winter at a banquet. During a matter of twenty years I
was seldom at a banquet where Willie Winter was not also present,
and where he did not read a charming poem written for the occasion. He
did it this time, and it was up to standard: dainty, happy, choicely
phrased, and as good to listen to as music, and sounding exactly as if
it was pouring unprepared out of heart and brain.

  Now at that point ends all that was pleasurable about that notable
celebration of Mr. Whittier's seventieth birthday- because I got up at
that point and followed Winter, with what I have no doubt I supposed
would be the gem of the evening- the gay oration above quoted from the
Boston paper. I had written it all out the day before and had
perfectly memorized it, and I stood up there at my genial and happy
and self-satisfied ease, and begin to deliver it. Those majestic
guests, that row of venerable and still active volcanoes, listened, as
did everybody else in the house, with attentive interest. Well, I
delivered myself of- we'll say the first two hundred words of my
speech. I was expecting no returns from that part of the speech, but
this was not the case as regarded the rest of it. I arrived now at the
dialogue: "The old miner said, 'You are the fourth, I'm going to
move.' 'The fourth what?' said I. He answered, 'The fourth littery man
that has been here in twenty-four hours. I am going to move.' 'Why,
you don't tell me,' said I. 'Who were the others?' 'Mr. Longfellow,
Mr. Emerson, Mr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, consound the lot-'"

  Now, then, the house's attention continued, but the expression of
interest in the faces turned to a sort of black frost. I wondered what
the trouble was. I didn't know. I went on, but with difficulty- I
struggled along, and entered upon that miner's fearful description
of the bogus Emerson, the bogus Holmes, the bogus Longfellow, always
hoping- but with a gradually perishing hope- that somebody would
laugh, or that somebody would at least smile, but nobody did. I didn't
know enough to give it up and sit down, I was too new to public
speaking, and so I went on with this awful performance, and carried it
clear through to the end, in front of a body of people who seemed
turned to stone with horror. It was the sort of expression their faces
would have worn if I had been making these remarks about the Deity and
the rest of the Trinity; there is no milder way in which to describe
the petrified condition and the ghastly expression of those people.

  When I sat down it was with a heart which had long ceased to beat. I
shall never be as dead again as I was then. I shall never be as
miserable again as I was then. I speak now as one who doesn't know
what the condition of things may be in the next world, but in this one
I shall never be as wretched again as I was then. Howells, who was
near me, tried to say a comforting word, but couldn't get beyond a
gasp. There was no use- he understood the whole size of the
disaster. He had good intentions, but the words froze before they
could get out. It was an atmosphere that would freeze anything. If
Benvenuto Cellini's salamander had been in that place he would not
have survived to be put into Cellini's autobiography. There was a
frightful pause. There was an awful silence, a desolating silence.
Then the next man on the list had to get up- there was no help for it.
That was Bishop- Bishop had just burst handsomely upon the world
with a most acceptable novel, which had appeared in The Atlantic
Monthly, a place which would make any novel respectable and any author
noteworthy. In this case the novel itself was recognized as being,
without extraneous help, respectable. Bishop was away up in the public
favor, and he was an object of high interest, consequently there was a
sort of national expectancy in the air; we may say our American
millions were standing, from Maine to Texas and from Alaska to
Florida, holding their breath, their lips parted, their hands ready to
applaud, when Bishop should get up on that occasion, and for the first
time in his life speak in public. It was under these damaging
conditions that he got up to "make good," as the vulgar say. I had
spoken several times before, and that is the reason why I was able
to go on without dying in my tracks, as I ought to have done- but
Bishop had had no experience. He was up facing those awful deities-
facing those other people, those strangers- facing human beings for
the first time in his life, with a speech to utter. No doubt it was
well packed away in his memory, no doubt it was fresh and usable,
until I had been heard from. I suppose that after that, and under
the smothering pall of that dreary silence, it began to waste away and
disappear out of his head like the rags breaking from the edge of a
fog, and presently there wasn't any fog left. He didn't go on- he
didn't last long. It was not many sentences after his first before
he began to hesitate, and break, and lose his grip, and totter, and
wobble, and at last he slumped down in a limp and mushy pile.

  Well, the programme for the occasion was probably not more than
one-third finished, but it ended there. Nobody rose. The next man
hadn't strength enough to get up, and everybody looked so dazed, so
stupefied, paralyzed, it was impossible for anybody to do anything, or
even try. Nothing could go on in that strange atmosphere. Howells
mournfully, and without words, hitched himself to Bishop and me and
supported us out of the room. It was very kind- he was most
generous. He towed us tottering away into some room in that
building, and we sat down there. I don't know what my remark was
now, but I know the nature of it. It was the kind of remark you make
when you know that nothing in the world can help your case. But
Howells was honest- he had to say the heart-breaking things he did
say: that there was no help for this calamity, this shipwreck, this
cataclysm; that this was the most disastrous thing that had ever
happened in anybody's history- and then he added, "That is, for you-
and consider what you have done for Bishop. It is bad enough in your
case, you deserve to suffer. You have committed this crime, and you
deserve to have all you are going to get. But here is an innocent man.
Bishop had never done you any harm, and see what you have done to him.
He can never hold his head up again. The world can never look upon
Bishop as being a live person. He is a corpse."

  That is the history of that episode of twenty-eight years ago, which
pretty nearly killed me with shame during that first year or two
whenever it forced its way into my mind.

  Now then, I take that speech up and examine it. As I said, it
arrived this morning, from Boston. I have read it twice, and unless
I am an idiot, it hasn't a single defect in it from the first word
to the last. It is just as good as good can be. It is smart; it is
saturated with humor. There isn't a suggestion of coarseness or
vulgarity in it anywhere. What could have been the matter with that
house? It is amazing, it is incredible, that they didn't shout with
laughter, and those deities the loudest of them all. Could the fault
have been with me? Did I lose courage when I saw those great men up
there whom I was going to describe in such a strange fashion? If
that happened, if I showed doubt, that can account for it, for you
can't be successfully funny if you show that you are afraid of it.
Well, I can't account for it, but if I had those beloved and revered
old literary immortals back here now on the platform at Carnegie
Hall I would take that same old speech, deliver it, word for word, and
melt them till they'd run all over that stage. Oh, the fault must have
been with me, it is not in the speech at all.
WELL, it was the next spring after me and Tom
Sawyer set our old nigger Jim free, the time he
was chained up for a runaway slave down there on
Tom's uncle Silas's farm in Arkansaw. The frost was
working out of the ground, and out of the air, too, and
it was getting closer and closer onto barefoot time every
day; and next it would be marble time, and next
mumbletypeg, and next tops and hoops, and next
kites, and then right away it would be summer and go-
ing in a-swimming. It just makes a boy homesick to
look ahead like that and see how far off summer is.
Yes, and it sets him to sighing and saddening around,
and there's something the matter with him, he don't
know what. But anyway, he gets out by himself and
mopes and thinks; and mostly he hunts for a lone-
some place high up on the hill in the edge of the woods,
and sets there and looks away off on the big Mississippi
down there a-reaching miles and miles around the points
where the timber looks smoky and dim it's so far off and
still, and everything's so solemn it seems like everybody
you've loved is dead and gone, and you 'most wish you
was dead and gone too, and done with it all.

Don't you know what that is? It's spring fever.
That is what the name of it is. And when you've got
it, you want -- oh, you don't quite know what it is you
DO want, but it just fairly makes your heart ache, you
want it so! It seems to you that mainly what you want
is to get away; get away from the same old tedious
things you're so used to seeing and so tired of, and set
something new. That is the idea; you want to go and
be a wanderer; you want to go wandering far away to
strange countries where everything is mysterious and
wonderful and romantic. And if you can't do that,
you'll put up with considerable less; you'll go any-
where you CAN go, just so as to get away, and be thank-
ful of the chance, too.

Well, me and Tom Sawyer had the spring fever, and
had it bad, too; but it warn't any use to think about
Tom trying to get away, because, as he said, his Aunt
Polly wouldn't let him quit school and go traipsing off
somers wasting time; so we was pretty blue. We was
setting on the front steps one day about sundown talk-
ing this way, when out comes his aunt Polly with a
letter in her hand and says:

"Tom, I reckon you've got to pack up and go down
to Arkansaw -- your aunt Sally wants you."

I 'most jumped out of my skin for joy. I reckoned
Tom would fly at his aunt and hug her head off; but if
you believe me he set there like a rock, and never said
a word. It made me fit to cry to see him act so foolish,
with such a noble chance as this opening up. Why,
we might lose it if he didn't speak up and show he was
thankful and grateful. But he set there and studied
and studied till I was that distressed I didn't know
what to do; then he says, very ca'm, and I could a
shot him for it:

"Well," he says, "I'm right down sorry, Aunt
Polly, but I reckon I got to be excused -- for the
present."

His aunt Polly was knocked so stupid and so mad at
the cold impudence of it that she couldn't say a word
for as much as a half a minute, and this gave me a
chance to nudge Tom and whisper:

"Ain't you got any sense? Sp'iling such a noble
chance as this and throwing it away?"

But he warn't disturbed. He mumbled back:

"Huck Finn, do you want me to let her SEE how bad
I want to go? Why, she'd begin to doubt, right
away, and imagine a lot of sicknesses and dangers and
objections, and first you know she'd take it all back.
You lemme alone; I reckon I know how to work her."

Now I never would 'a' thought of that. But he was
right. Tom Sawyer was always right -- the levelest
head I ever see, and always AT himself and ready for
anything you might spring on him. By this time his
aunt Polly was all straight again, and she let fly. She
says:

"You'll be excused! YOU will! Well, I never
heard the like of it in all my days! The idea of you
talking like that to ME! Now take yourself off and
pack your traps; and if I hear another word out of
you about what you'll be excused from and what you
won't, I lay I'LL excuse you -- with a hickory!"

She hit his head a thump with her thimble as we
dodged by, and he let on to be whimpering as we
struck for the stairs. Up in his room he hugged me,
he was so out of his head for gladness because he was
going traveling. And he says:

"Before we get away she'll wish she hadn't let me
go, but she won't know any way to get around it now.
After what she's said, her pride won't let her take it
back."

Tom was packed in ten minutes, all except what his
aunt and Mary would finish up for him; then we waited
ten more for her to get cooled down and sweet and
gentle again; for Tom said it took her ten minutes to
unruffle in times when half of her feathers was up, but
twenty when they was all up, and this was one of the
times when they was all up. Then we went down,
being in a sweat to know what the letter said.

She was setting there in a brown study, with it laying
in her lap. We set down, and she says:

"They're in considerable trouble down there, and
they think you and Huck'll be a kind of diversion for
them -- 'comfort,' they say. Much of that they'll get
out of you and Huck Finn, I reckon. There's a neigh-
bor named Brace Dunlap that's been wanting to marry
their Benny for three months, and at last they told him
point blank and once for all, he COULDN'T; so he has soured
on them, and they're worried about it. I reckon he's
somebody they think they better be on the good side
of, for they've tried to please him by hiring his no-
account brother to help on the farm when they can't
hardly afford it, and don't want him around anyhow.
Who are the Dunlaps?"

"They live about a mile from Uncle Silas's place,
Aunt Polly -- all the farmers live about a mile apart
down there -- and Brace Dunlap is a long sight richer
than any of the others, and owns a whole grist of nig-
gers. He's a widower, thirty-six years old, without
any children, and is proud of his money and overbear-
ing, and everybody is a little afraid of him. I judge he
thought he could have any girl he wanted, just for the
asking, and it must have set him back a good deal when
he found he couldn't get Benny. Why, Benny's only
half as old as he is, and just as sweet and lovely asÑ
well, you've seen her. Poor old Uncle Silas -- why,
it's pitiful, him trying to curry favor that way -- so hard
pushed and poor, and yet hiring that useless Jubiter
Dunlap to please his ornery brother."

"What a name -- Jubiter! Where'd he get it?"

"It's only just a nickname. I reckon they've forgot
his real name long before this. He's twenty-seven,
now, and has had it ever since the first time he ever
went in swimming. The school teacher seen a round
brown mole the size of a dime on his left leg above his
knee, and four little bits of moles around it, when he
was naked, and he said it minded him of Jubiter and
his moons; and the children thought it was funny, and
so they got to calling him Jubiter, and he's Jubiter yet.
He's tall, and lazy, and sly, and sneaky, and ruther
cowardly, too, but kind of good-natured, and wears
long brown hair and no beard, and hasn't got a cent,
and Brace boards him for nothing, and gives him his old
clothes to wear, and despises him. Jubiter is a twin."

"What's t'other twin like?"

"Just exactly like Jubiter -- so they say; used to
was, anyway, but he hain't been seen for seven years.
He got to robbing when he was nineteen or twenty,
and they jailed him; but he broke jail and got away --
up North here, somers. They used to hear about him
robbing and burglaring now and then, but that was
years ago. He's dead, now. At least that's what
they say. They don't hear about him any more."

"What was his name?"

"Jake."

There wasn't anything more said for a considerable
while; the old lady was thinking. At last she says:

"The thing that is mostly worrying your aunt Sally
is the tempers that that man Jubiter gets your uncle
into."

Tom was astonished, and so was I. Tom says:

"Tempers? Uncle Silas? Land, you must be jok-
ing! I didn't know he HAD any temper."

"Works him up into perfect rages, your aunt Sally
says; says he acts as if he would really hit the man,
sometimes."

"Aunt Polly, it beats anything I ever heard of.
Why, he's just as gentle as mush."

"Well, she's worried, anyway. Says your uncle
Silas is like a changed man, on account of all this
quarreling. And the neighbors talk about it, and lay
all the blame on your uncle, of course, because he's a
preacher and hain't got any business to quarrel. Your
aunt Sally says he hates to go into the pulpit he's so
ashamed; and the people have begun to cool toward
him, and he ain't as popular now as he used to was."

"Well, ain't it strange? Why, Aunt Polly, he was
always so good and kind and moony and absent-minded
and chuckle-headed and lovable -- why, he was just an
angel! What CAN be the matter of him, do you
reckon?"

CHAPTER II.
JAKE DUNLAP

WE had powerful good luck; because we got a
chance in a stern-wheeler from away North which
was bound for one of them bayous or one-horse rivers
away down Louisiana way, and so we could go all the
way down the Upper Mississippi and all the way down
the Lower Mississippi to that farm in Arkansaw with-
out having to change steamboats at St. Louis; not so
very much short of a thousand miles at one pull.

A pretty lonesome boat; there warn't but few
passengers, and all old folks, that set around, wide
apart, dozing, and was very quiet. We was four days
getting out of the "upper river," because we got
aground so much. But it warn't dull -- couldn't be
for boys that was traveling, of course.

From the very start me and Tom allowed that there
was somebody sick in the stateroom next to ourn, be-
cause the meals was always toted in there by the wait-
ers. By and by we asked about it -- Tom did and
the waiter said it was a man, but he didn't look sick.

"Well, but AIN'T he sick?"

"I don't know; maybe he is, but 'pears to me he's
just letting on."

"What makes you think that?"

"Because if he was sick he would pull his clothes off
SOME time or other -- don't you reckon he would?
Well, this one don't. At least he don't ever pull off
his boots, anyway."

"The mischief he don't! Not even when he goes
to bed?"

"No."

It was always nuts for Tom Sawyer -- a mystery was.
If you'd lay out a mystery and a pie before me and
him, you wouldn't have to say take your choice; it
was a thing that would regulate itself. Because in my
nature I have always run to pie, whilst in his nature he
has always run to mystery. People are made different.
And it is the best way. Tom says to the waiter:

"What's the man's name?"

"Phillips."

"Where'd he come aboard?"

"I think he got aboard at Elexandria, up on the
Iowa line."

"What do you reckon he's a-playing?"

"I hain't any notion -- I never thought of it."

I says to myself, here's another one that runs to pie.

"Anything peculiar about him? -- the way he acts or
talks?"

"No -- nothing, except he seems so scary, and
keeps his doors locked night and day both, and when
you knock he won't let you in till he opens the door a
crack and sees who it is."

"By jimminy, it's int'resting! I'd like to get a
look at him. Say -- the next time you're going in
there, don't you reckon you could spread the door
and --"

"No, indeedy! He's always behind it. He would
block that game."

Tom studied over it, and then he says:

"Looky here. You lend me your apern and let me
take him his breakfast in the morning. I'll give you a
quarter."

The boy was plenty willing enough, if the head
steward wouldn't mind. Tom says that's all right, he
reckoned he could fix it with the head steward; and he
done it. He fixed it so as we could both go in with
aperns on and toting vittles.

He didn't sleep much, he was in such a sweat to get
in there and find out the mystery about Phillips; and
moreover he done a lot of guessing about it all night,
which warn't no use, for if you are going to find out
the facts of a thing, what's the sense in guessing out
what ain't the facts and wasting ammunition? I
didn't lose no sleep. I wouldn't give a dern to know
what's the matter of Phillips, I says to myself.

Well, in the morning we put on the aperns and got a
couple of trays of truck, and Tom he knocked on the
door. The man opened it a crack, and then he let us in
and shut it quick. By Jackson, when we got a sight of
him, we 'most dropped the trays! and Tom says:

"Why, Jubiter Dunlap, where'd YOU come from?"

Well, the man was astonished, of course; and first
off he looked like he didn't know whether to be scared,
or glad, or both, or which, but finally he settled down
to being glad; and then his color come back, though at
first his face had turned pretty white. So we got to
talking together while he et his breakfast. And he
says:

"But I aint Jubiter Dunlap. I'd just as soon tell
you who I am, though, if you'll swear to keep mum,
for I ain't no Phillips, either."

Tom says:

"We'll keep mum, but there ain't any need to tell
who you are if you ain't Jubiter Dunlap."

"Why?"

"Because if you ain't him you're t'other twin, Jake.
You're the spit'n image of Jubiter."

"Well, I'm Jake. But looky here, how do you
come to know us Dunlaps?"

Tom told about the adventures we'd had down there
at his uncle Silas's last summer, and when he see that
there warn't anything about his folks -- or him either,
for that matter -- that we didn't know, he opened out
and talked perfectly free and candid. He never made
any bones about his own case; said he'd been a hard
lot, was a hard lot yet, and reckoned he'd be a hard lot
plumb to the end. He said of course it was a danger-
ous life, and --

He give a kind of gasp, and set his head like a person
that's listening. We didn't say anything, and so it
was very still for a second or so, and there warn't no
sounds but the screaking of the woodwork and the chug-
chugging of the machinery down below.

Then we got him comfortable again, telling him about
his people, and how Brace's wife had been dead three
years, and Brace wanted to marry Benny and she shook
him, and Jubiter was working for Uncle Silas, and him
and Uncle Silas quarreling all the time -- and then he
let go and laughed.

"Land!" he says, "it's like old times to hear all
this tittle-tattle, and does me good. It's been seven
years and more since I heard any. How do they talk
about me these days?"

"Who?"

"The farmers -- and the family."

"Why, they don't talk about you at all -- at least
only just a mention, once in a long time."

"The nation!" he says, surprised; "why is that?"

"Because they think you are dead long ago."

"No! Are you speaking true? -- honor bright,
now." He jumped up, excited.

"Honor bright. There ain't anybody thinks you are
alive."

"Then I'm saved, I'm saved, sure! I'll go home.
They'll hide me and save my life. You keep mum.
Swear you'll keep mum -- swear you'll never, never tell
on me. Oh, boys, be good to a poor devil that's being
hunted day and night, and dasn't show his face! I've
never done you any harm; I'll never do you any, as
God is in the heavens; swear you'll be good to me
and help me save my life."

We'd a swore it if he'd been a dog; and so we done
it. Well, he couldn't love us enough for it or be grate-
ful enough, poor cuss; it was all he could do to keep
from hugging us.

We talked along, and he got out a little hand-bag
and begun to open it, and told us to turn our backs.
We done it, and when he told us to turn again he was
perfectly different to what he was before. He had on
blue goggles and the naturalest-looking long brown
whiskers and mustashes you ever see. His own
mother wouldn't 'a' knowed him. He asked us if he
looked like his brother Jubiter, now.

"No," Tom said; "there ain't anything left that's
like him except the long hair."

"All right, I'll get that cropped close to my head be-
fore I get there; then him and Brace will keep my
secret, and I'll live with them as being a stranger, and
the neighbors won't ever guess me out. What do you
think?"

Tom he studied awhile, then he says:

"Well, of course me and Huck are going to keep
mum there, but if you don't keep mum yourself there's
going to be a little bit of a risk -- it ain't much, maybe,
but it's a little. I mean, if you talk, won't people
notice that your voice is just like Jubiter's; and
mightn't it make them think of the twin they reckoned
was dead, but maybe after all was hid all this time
under another name?"

"By George," he says, "you're a sharp one!
You're perfectly right. I've got to play deef and
dumb when there's a neighbor around. If I'd a struck
for home and forgot that little detail -- However, I
wasn't striking for home. I was breaking for any
place where I could get away from these fellows that
are after me; then I was going to put on this disguise
and get some different clothes, and --"

He jumped for the outside door and laid his ear
against it and listened, pale and kind of panting.
Presently he whispers:

"Sounded like cocking a gun! Lord, what a life to
lead!"

Then he sunk down in a chair all limp and sick like,
and wiped the sweat off of his face.

CHAPTER III.
A DIAMOND ROBBERY

FROM that time out, we was with him 'most all the
time, and one or t'other of us slept in his upper
berth. He said he had been so lonesome, and it was
such a comfort to him to have company, and somebody
to talk to in his troubles. We was in a sweat to find
out what his secret was, but Tom said the best way was
not to seem anxious, then likely he would drop into it
himself in one of his talks, but if we got to asking
questions he would get suspicious and shet up his shell.
It turned out just so. It warn't no trouble to see that
he WANTED to talk about it, but always along at first he
would scare away from it when he got on the very edge
of it, and go to talking about something else. The
way it come about was this: He got to asking us,
kind of indifferent like, about the passengers down on
deck. We told him about them. But he warn't satis-
fied; we warn't particular enough. He told us to de-
scribe them better. Tom done it. At last, when Tom
was describing one of the roughest and raggedest ones,
he gave a shiver and a gasp and says:

"Oh, lordy, that's one of them! They're aboard
sure -- I just knowed it. I sort of hoped I had got
away, but I never believed it. Go on."

Presently when Tom was describing another mangy,
rough deck passenger, he give that shiver again and
says:

"That's him! -- that's the other one. If it would
only come a good black stormy night and I could get
ashore. You see, they've got spies on me. They've
got a right to come up and buy drinks at the bar
yonder forrard, and they take that chance to bribe
somebody to keep watch on me -- porter or boots or
somebody. If I was to slip ashore without anybody
seeing me, they would know it inside of an hour."

So then he got to wandering along, and pretty soon,
sure enough, he was telling! He was poking along
through his ups and downs, and when he come to that
place he went right along. He says:

"It was a confidence game. We played it on a julery-
shop in St. Louis. What we was after was a couple of
noble big di'monds as big as hazel-nuts, which every-
body was running to see. We was dressed up fine, and
we played it on them in broad daylight. We ordered
the di'monds sent to the hotel for us to see if we
wanted to buy, and when we was examining them we
had paste counterfeits all ready, and THEM was the things
that went back to the shop when we said the water
wasn't quite fine enough for twelve thousand dollars."

"TwelveÑthousandÑdollars!" Tom says. "Was
they really worth all that money, do you reckon?"

"Every cent of it."

"And you fellows got away with them?"

"As easy as nothing. I don't reckon the julery
people know they've been robbed yet. But it wouldn't
be good sense to stay around St. Louis, of course, so
we considered where we'd go. One was for going one
way, one another, so we throwed up, heads or tails,
and the Upper Mississippi won. We done up the
di'monds in a paper and put our names on it and put
it in the keep of the hotel clerk, and told him not to
ever let either of us have it again without the others was
on hand to see it done; then we went down town, each
by his own self -- because I reckon maybe we all had
the same notion. I don't know for certain, but I
reckon maybe we had."

"What notion?" Tom says.

"To rob the others."

"What -- one take everything, after all of you had
helped to get it?"

"Cert'nly."

It disgusted Tom Sawyer, and he said it was the
orneriest, low-downest thing he ever heard of. But
Jake Dunlap said it warn't unusual in the profession.
Said when a person was in that line of business he'd
got to look out for his own intrust, there warn't no-
body else going to do it for him. And then he went
on. He says:

"You see, the trouble was, you couldn't divide up
two di'monds amongst three. If there'd been three --
But never mind about that, there warn't three. I
loafed along the back streets studying and studying.
And I says to myself, I'll hog them di'monds the first
chance I get, and I'll have a disguise all ready, and I'll
give the boys the slip, and when I'm safe away I'll put
it on, and then let them find me if they can. So I got
the false whiskers and the goggles and this countrified
suit of clothes, and fetched them along back in a hand-
bag; and when I was passing a shop where they sell all
sorts of things, I got a glimpse of one of my pals
through the window. It was Bud Dixon. I was glad,
you bet. I says to myself, I'll see what he buys. So
I kept shady, and watched. Now what do you reckon
it was he bought?"

"Whiskers?" said I.

"No."

"Goggles?"

"No."

"Oh, keep still, Huck Finn, can't you, you're only
just hendering all you can. What WAS it he bought,
Jake?"

"You'd never guess in the world. It was only just
a screwdriver -- just a wee little bit of a screwdriver."

"Well, I declare! What did he want with that?"

"That's what I thought. It was curious. It clean
stumped me. I says to myself, what can he want with
that thing? Well, when he come out I stood back out
of sight, and then tracked him to a second-hand slop-
shop and see him buy a red flannel shirt and some old
ragged clothes -- just the ones he's got on now, as
you've described. Then I went down to the wharf and
hid my things aboard the up-river boat that we had
picked out, and then started back and had another
streak of luck. I seen our other pal lay in HIS stock
of old rusty second-handers. We got the di'monds
and went aboard the boat.

"But now we was up a stump, for we couldn't go
to bed. We had to set up and watch one another.
Pity, that was; pity to put that kind of a strain on us,
because there was bad blood between us from a
couple of weeks back, and we was only friends in the
way of business. Bad anyway, seeing there was only
two di'monds betwixt three men. First we had supper,
and then tramped up and down the deck together
smoking till most midnight; then we went and set
down in my stateroom and locked the doors and looked
in the piece of paper to see if the di'monds was all
right, then laid it on the lower berth right in full sight;
and there we set, and set, and by-and-by it got to be
dreadful hard to keep awake. At last Bud Dixon he
dropped off. As soon as he was snoring a good regular
gait that was likely to last, and had his chin on his
breast and looked permanent, Hal Clayton nodded
towards the di'monds and then towards the outside
door, and I understood. I reached and got the paper,
and then we stood up and waited perfectly still; Bud
never stirred; I turned the key of the outside door
very soft and slow, then turned the knob the same
way, and we went tiptoeing out onto the guard, and
shut the door very soft and gentle.

"There warn't nobody stirring anywhere, and the
boat was slipping along, swift and steady, through the
big water in the smoky moonlight. We never said a
word, but went straight up onto the hurricane-deck and
plumb back aft, and set down on the end of the sky-
light. Both of us knowed what that meant, without
having to explain to one another. Bud Dixon would
wake up and miss the swag, and would come straight
for us, for he ain't afeard of anything or anybody, that
man ain't. He would come, and we would heave him
overboard, or get killed trying. It made me shiver,
because I ain't as brave as some people, but if I
showed the white feather -- well, I knowed better than
do that. I kind of hoped the boat would land somers,
and we could skip ashore and not have to run the risk
of this row, I was so scared of Bud Dixon, but she
was an upper-river tub and there warn't no real chance
of that.

"Well, the time strung along and along, and that
fellow never come! Why, it strung along till dawn
begun to break, and still he never come. 'Thunder,' I
says, 'what do you make out of this? -- ain't it sus-
picious?' 'Land!' Hal says, 'do you reckon he's
playing us? -- open the paper!' I done it, and by
gracious there warn't anything in it but a couple of
little pieces of loaf-sugar! THAT'S the reason he could
set there and snooze all night so comfortable. Smart?
Well, I reckon! He had had them two papers all fixed
and ready, and he had put one of them in place of
t'other right under our noses.

"We felt pretty cheap. But the thing to do, straight
off, was to make a plan; and we done it. We would
do up the paper again, just as it was, and slip in, very
elaborate and soft, and lay it on the bunk again, and
let on WE didn't know about any trick, and hadn't any
idea he was a-laughing at us behind them bogus snores
of his'n; and we would stick by him, and the first
night we was ashore we would get him drunk and
search him, and get the di'monds; and DO for him,
too, if it warn't too risky. If we got the swag, we'd
GOT to do for him, or he would hunt us down and do for
us, sure. But I didn't have no real hope. I knowed
we could get him drunk -- he was always ready for
that -- but what's the good of it? You might search
him a year and never find --

"Well, right there I catched my breath and broke
off my thought! For an idea went ripping through my
head that tore my brains to rags -- and land, but I felt
gay and good! You see, I had had my boots off, to
unswell my feet, and just then I took up one of them
to put it on, and I catched a glimpse of the heel-
bottom, and it just took my breath away. You re-
member about that puzzlesome little screwdriver?"

"You bet I do," says Tom, all excited.

"Well, when I catched that glimpse of that boot
heel, the idea that went smashing through my head
was, I know where he's hid the di'monds! You look
at this boot heel, now. See, it's bottomed with a steel
plate, and the plate is fastened on with little screws.
Now there wasn't a screw about that feller anywhere
but in his boot heels; so, if he needed a screwdriver,
I reckoned I knowed why."

"Huck, ain't it bully!" says Tom.

"Well, I got my boots on, and we went down and
slipped in and laid the paper of sugar on the berth,
and sat down soft and sheepish and went to listening to
Bud Dixon snore. Hal Clayton dropped off pretty
soon, but I didn't; I wasn't ever so wide awake in my
life. I was spying out from under the shade of my
hat brim, searching the floor for leather. It took me a
long time, and I begun to think maybe my guess was
wrong, but at last I struck it. It laid over by the
bulkhead, and was nearly the color of the carpet. It
was a little round plug about as thick as the end of your
little finger, and I says to myself there's a di'mond in
the nest you've come from. Before long I spied out
the plug's mate .

"Think of the smartness and coolness of that
blatherskite! He put up that scheme on us and
reasoned out what we would do, and we went ahead
and done it perfectly exact, like a couple of pudd'n-
heads. He set there and took his own time to un-
screw his heelplates and cut out his plugs and stick in
the di'monds and screw on his plates again . He
allowed we would steal the bogus swag and wait all
night for him to come up and get drownded, and by
George it's just what we done! I think it was power-
ful smart."

"You bet your life it was!" says Tom, just full of
admiration.

CHAPTER IV.
THE THREE SLEEPERS

WELL, all day we went through the humbug of
watching one another, and it was pretty sickly
business for two of us and hard to act out, I can tell
you. About night we landed at one of them little
Missouri towns high up toward Iowa, and had supper
at the tavern, and got a room upstairs with a cot and a
double bed in it, but I dumped my bag under a deal
table in the dark hall while we was moving along it to
bed, single file, me last, and the landlord in the lead
with a tallow candle. We had up a lot of whisky, and
went to playing high-low-jack for dimes, and as soon
as the whisky begun to take hold of Bud we stopped
drinking, but we didn't let him stop. We loaded him
till he fell out of his chair and laid there snoring.

"We was ready for business now. I said we better
pull our boots off, and his'n too, and not make any
noise, then we could pull him and haul him around and
ransack him without any trouble. So we done it. I
set my boots and Bud's side by side, where they'd be
handy. Then we stripped him and searched his seams
and his pockets and his socks and the inside of his
boots, and everything, and searched his bundle. Never
found any di'monds. We found the screwdriver, and
Hal says, 'What do you reckon he wanted with that?'
I said I didn't know; but when he wasn't looking I
hooked it. At last Hal he looked beat and discour-
aged, and said we'd got to give it up. That was what
I was waiting for. I says:

"'There's one place we hain't searched.'

"'What place is that?' he says.

"'His stomach.'

"'By gracious, I never thought of that! NOW we're
on the homestretch, to a dead moral certainty. How'll
we manage?'

"'Well,' I says, 'just stay by him till I turn out and
hunt up a drug store, and I reckon I'll fetch something
that'll make them di'monds tired of the company
they're keeping.'

"He said that's the ticket, and with him looking
straight at me I slid myself into Bud's boots instead of
my own, and he never noticed. They was just a shade
large for me, but that was considerable better than be-
ing too small. I got my bag as I went a-groping
through the hall, and in about a minute I was out the
back way and stretching up the river road at a five-mile
gait.

"And not feeling so very bad, neither -- walking on
di'monds don't have no such effect. When I had gone
fifteen minutes I says to myself, there's more'n a mile
behind me, and everything quiet. Another five minutes
and I says there's considerable more land behind me
now, and there's a man back there that's begun to
wonder what's the trouble. Another five and I says to
myself he's getting real uneasy -- he's walking the floor
now. Another five, and I says to myself, there's two
mile and a half behind me, and he's AWFUL uneasy -- be-
ginning to cuss, I reckon. Pretty soon I says to my-
self, forty minutes gone -- he KNOWS there's something
up! Fifty minutes -- the truth's a-busting on him
now! he is reckoning I found the di'monds whilst we
was searching, and shoved them in my pocket and never
let on -- yes, and he's starting out to hunt for me.
He'll hunt for new tracks in the dust, and they'll as
likely send him down the river as up.

"Just then I see a man coming down on a mule, and
before I thought I jumped into the bush. It was
stupid! When he got abreast he stopped and waited
a little for me to come out; then he rode on again.
But I didn't feel gay any more. I says to myself I've
botched my chances by that; I surely have, if he meets
up with Hal Clayton.

"Well, about three in the morning I fetched Elex-
andria and see this stern-wheeler laying there, and was
very glad, because I felt perfectly safe, now, you know.
It was just daybreak. I went aboard and got this state-
room and put on these clothes and went up in the pilot-
house -- to watch, though I didn't reckon there was
any need of it. I set there and played with my
di'monds and waited and waited for the boat to start,
but she didn't. You see, they was mending her
machinery, but I didn't know anything about it, not
being very much used to steamboats.

"Well, to cut the tale short, we never left there till
plumb noon; and long before that I was hid in this
stateroom; for before breakfast I see a man coming,
away off, that had a gait like Hal Clayton's, and it
made me just sick. I says to myself, if he finds out
I'm aboard this boat, he's got me like a rat in a trap.
All he's got to do is to have me watched, and wait --
wait till I slip ashore, thinking he is a thousand miles
away, then slip after me and dog me to a good place
and make me give up the di'monds, and then he'll --
oh, I know what he'll do! Ain't it awful -- awful!
And now to think the OTHER one's aboard, too! Oh,
ain't it hard luck, boys -- ain't it hard! But you'll help
save me, WON'T you? -- oh, boys, be good to a poor
devil that's being hunted to death, and save me -- I'll
worship the very ground you walk on!"

We turned in and soothed him down and told him
we would plan for him and help him, and he needn't
be so afeard; and so by and by he got to feeling kind
of comfortable again, and unscrewed his heelplates and
held up his di'monds this way and that, admiring them
and loving them; and when the light struck into them
they WAS beautiful, sure; why, they seemed to kind of
bust, and snap fire out all around. But all the same I
judged he was a fool. If I had been him I would a
handed the di'monds to them pals and got them to go
ashore and leave me alone. But he was made differ-
ent. He said it was a whole fortune and he couldn't
bear the idea.

Twice we stopped to fix the machinery and laid a
good while, once in the night; but it wasn't dark
enough, and he was afeard to skip. But the third
time we had to fix it there was a better chance. We
laid up at a country woodyard about forty mile above
Uncle Silas's place a little after one at night, and it was
thickening up and going to storm. So Jake he laid for
a chance to slide. We begun to take in wood. Pretty
soon the rain come a-drenching down, and the wind
blowed hard. Of course every boat-hand fixed a
gunny sack and put it on like a bonnet, the way they
do when they are toting wood, and we got one for
Jake, and he slipped down aft with his hand-bag and
come tramping forrard just like the rest, and walked
ashore with them, and when we see him pass out of the
light of the torch-basket and get swallowed up in the
dark, we got our breath again and just felt grateful and
splendid. But it wasn't for long. Somebody told, I
reckon; for in about eight or ten minutes them two
pals come tearing forrard as tight as they could jump
and darted ashore and was gone. We waited plumb
till dawn for them to come back, and kept hoping they
would, but they never did. We was awful sorry and
low-spirited. All the hope we had was that Jake had
got such a start that they couldn't get on his track, and
he would get to his brother's and hide there and be
safe.

He was going to take the river road, and told us to
find out if Brace and Jubiter was to home and no
strangers there, and then slip out about sundown and
tell him. Said he would wait for us in a little bunch of
sycamores right back of Tom's uncle Silas's tobacker
field on the river road, a lonesome place.

We set and talked a long time about his chances, and
Tom said he was all right if the pals struck up the
river instead of down, but it wasn't likely, because
maybe they knowed where he was from; more likely
they would go right, and dog him all day, him not
suspecting, and kill him when it come dark, and take
the boots. So we was pretty sorrowful.

CHAPTER V.
A TRAGEDY IN THE: WOODS

WE didn't get done tinkering the machinery till away
late in the afternoon, and so it was so close to
sundown when we got home that we never stopped on
our road, but made a break for the sycamores as tight
as we could go, to tell Jake what the delay was, and
have him wait till we could go to Brace's and find out
how things was there. It was getting pretty dim by the
time we turned the corner of the woods, sweating and
panting with that long run, and see the sycamores thirty
yards ahead of us; and just then we see a couple of
men run into the bunch and heard two or three terrible
screams for help. "Poor Jake is killed, sure," we
says. We was scared through and through, and broke
for the tobacker field and hid there, trembling so our
clothes would hardly stay on; and just as we skipped
in there, a couple of men went tearing by, and into the
bunch they went, and in a second out jumps four men
and took out up the road as tight as they could go,
two chasing two.

We laid down, kind of weak and sick, and listened
for more sounds, but didn't hear none for a good while
but just our hearts. We was thinking of that awful
thing laying yonder in the sycamores, and it seemed
like being that close to a ghost, and it give me the cold
shudders. The moon come a-swelling up out of the
ground, now, powerful big and round and bright, be-
hind a comb of trees, like a face looking through prison
bars, and the black shadders and white places begun to
creep around, and it was miserable quiet and still and
night-breezy and graveyardy and scary. All of a sud-
den Tom whispers:

"Look! -- what's that?"

"Don't!" I says. "Don't take a person by sur-
prise that way. I'm 'most ready to die, anyway, with-
out you doing that."

"Look, I tell you. It's something coming out of
the sycamores."

"Don't, Tom!"

"It's terrible tall!"

"Oh, lordy-lordy! let's --"

"Keep still -- it's a-coming this way."

He was so excited he could hardly get breath enough
to whisper. I had to look. I couldn't help it. So
now we was both on our knees with our chins on a
fence rail and gazing -- yes, and gasping too. It was
coming down the road -- coming in the shadder of the
trees, and you couldn't see it good; not till it was
pretty close to us; then it stepped into a bright splotch
of moonlight and we sunk right down in our tracks --
it was Jake Dunlap's ghost! That was what we said
to ourselves.

We couldn't stir for a minute or two; then it was
gone We talked about it in low voices. Tom
says:

"They're mostly dim and smoky, or like they're
made out of fog, but this one wasn't."

"No," I says; "I seen the goggles and the whiskers
perfectly plain."

"Yes, and the very colors in them loud countrified
Sunday clothes -- plaid breeches, green and black --"

"Cotton velvet westcot, fire-red and yaller squares --"

"Leather straps to the bottoms of the breeches legs
and one of them hanging unbottoned --"

"Yes, and that hat --"

"What a hat for a ghost to wear!"

You see it was the first season anybody wore that
kind -- a black sitff-brim stove-pipe, very high, and
not smooth, with a round top -- just like a sugar-loaf.

"Did you notice if its hair was the same, Huck?"

"No -- seems to me I did, then again it seems to me
I didn't."

"I didn't either; but it had its bag along, I noticed
that."

"So did I. How can there be a ghost-bag, Tom?"

"Sho! I wouldn't be as ignorant as that if I was
you, Huck Finn. Whatever a ghost has, turns to ghost-
stuff. They've got to have their things, like anybody
else. You see, yourself, that its clothes was turned to
ghost-stuff. Well, then, what's to hender its bag from
turning, too? Of course it done it."

That was reasonable. I couldn't find no fault with
it. Bill Withers and his brother Jack come along by,
talking, and Jack says:

"What do you reckon he was toting?"

"I dunno; but it was pretty heavy."

"Yes, all he could lug. Nigger stealing corn from
old Parson Silas, I judged."

"So did I. And so I allowed I wouldn't let on to
see him."

"That's me, too."

Then they both laughed, and went on out of hearing.
It showed how unpopular old Uncle Silas had got to be
now. They wouldn't 'a' let a nigger steal anybody
else's corn and never done anything to him.

We heard some more voices mumbling along towards
us and getting louder, and sometimes a cackle of a
laugh. It was Lem Beebe and Jim Lane. Jim Lane
says:

"Who? -- Jubiter Dunlap?"

"Yes."

"Oh, I don't know. I reckon so. I seen him spad-
ing up some ground along about an hour ago, just be-
fore sundown -- him and the parson. Said he guessed
he wouldn't go to-night, but we could have his dog if
we wanted him."

"Too tired, I reckon."

"Yes -- works so hard!"

"Oh, you bet!"

They cackled at that, and went on by. Tom said we
better jump out and tag along after them, because they
was going our way and it wouldn't be comfortable to
run across the ghost all by ourselves. So we done it,
and got home all right.

That night was the second of September -- a Satur-
day. I sha'n't ever forget it. You'll see why, pretty
soon .

CHAPTER VI.
PLANS TO SECURE THE DIAMONDS

WE tramped along behind Jim and Lem till we come
to the back stile where old Jim's cabin was that
he was captivated in, the time we set him free, and here
come the dogs piling around us to say howdy, and
there was the lights of the house, too; so we warn't
afeard any more, and was going to climb over, but
Tom says:

"Hold on; set down here a minute. By George!"

"What's the matter?" says I.

"Matter enough!" he says. "Wasn't you expect-
ing we would be the first to tell the family who it is
that's been killed yonder in the sycamores, and all
about them rapscallions that done it, and about the
di'monds they've smouched off of the corpse, and paint
it up fine, and have the glory of being the ones that
knows a lot more about it than anybody else?"

"Why, of course. It wouldn't be you, Tom Sawyer,
if you was to let such a chance go by. I reckon it
ain't going to suffer none for lack of paint," I says,
"when you start in to scollop the facts."

"Well, now," he says, perfectly ca'm, "what would
you say if I was to tell you I ain't going to start in at
all?"

I was astonished to hear him talk so. I says:

"I'd say it's a lie. You ain't in earnest, Tom
Sawyer?"

"You'll soon see. Was the ghost barefooted?"

"No, it wasn't. What of it?"

"You wait -- I'll show you what. Did it have its
boots on?"

"Yes. I seen them plain."

"Swear it?"

"Yes, I swear it."

"So do I. Now do you know what that means?"

"No. What does it mean?"

"Means that them thieves DIDN'T GET THE DI'MONDS."

"Jimminy! What makes you think that?"

"I don't only think it, I know it. Didn't the
breeches and goggles and whiskers and hand-bag and
every blessed thing turn to ghost-stuff? Everything it
had on turned, didn't it? It shows that the reason its
boots turned too was because it still had them on after
it started to go ha'nting around, and if that ain't proof
that them blatherskites didn't get the boots, I'd like to
know what you'd CALL proof."

Think of that now. I never see such a head as that
boy had. Why, I had eyes and I could see things, but
they never meant nothing to me. But Tom Sawyer
was different. When Tom Sawyer seen a thing it just
got up on its hind legs and TALKED to him -- told him
everything it knowed. I never see such a head.

"Tom Sawyer," I says, "I'll say it again as I've
said it a many a time before: I ain't fitten to black
your boots. But that's all right -- that's neither here
nor there. God Almighty made us all, and some He
gives eyes that's blind, and some He gives eyes that
can see, and I reckon it ain't none of our lookout what
He done it for; it's all right, or He'd 'a' fixed it some
other way. Go on -- I see plenty plain enough, now,
that them thieves didn't get way with the di'monds.
Why didn't they, do you reckon?"

"Because they got chased away by them other two
men before they could pull the boots off of the corpse."

"That's so! I see it now. But looky here, Tom,
why ain't we to go and tell about it?"

"Oh, shucks, Huck Finn, can't you see? Look at
it. What's a-going to happen? There's going to be
an inquest in the morning. Them two men will tell
how they heard the yells and rushed there just in time
to not save the stranger. Then the jury'll twaddle
and twaddle and twaddle, and finally they'll fetch in a
verdict that he got shot or stuck or busted over the
head with something, and come to his death by the in-
spiration of God. And after they've buried him they'll
auction off his things for to pay the expenses, and
then's OUR chance."
"How, Tom?"
